(*to

IB 16 Blidt
by R let c me @ send c the details c yc
Interviewer: How did you change after becoming the head of such a large company?
President: I I 22 I I 23 I my time more effectively.
came to @ manage c need @ realize c the - c to
80 55"

pi
JfcwWWA • B)K#x.J:o (I2,Åí 14)
A ?fccoK^(Ml~3)^i5W>-C. TUgEcO^^ii^cOHotM^S^CD^, ZH^tlTcDc~@<Dd
o-foj1K0
(bI 1 1 1 1 c illegal (D logical c tiger @ vague
fn] 2 I 2 I c bounded (2) founded c surrounded @ wounded
f!fj 3 I 3 I c church c curious c curtain @ occur
B ^coW</>(Wl~4){cfev>-C, b(m~%i.%')C0&mn:Z.fr<D=<>bÅ_i:&5ib<D*, Zti-etiT
ffll
2
M 3
W4
4 I c civil R purchase (3) unite @ valid
5 I c abandon (D decision (3) politics @ potential
6 I c charity (2) continent (D demonstrate @ opponent
7 I c agriculture c discovery (D material R philosophy
WWA~C)Kgx.J:o (K.&44)
KOfflWHUl-lO)c OZl-IHO
frbÅ\ofol't, tztz L,
15
-Å†O ( A )Åí( B )
Ml
c
M2
c
IW3
c
c
c
M6
c
K7
c
Pol 8
c
The train I 8 I when I reached the platform, so I didn't have to wait in the cold.
had already arrived (D has already arrived (3) previously arrived @ previously arrives
I 9 I Tokyo has a relatively small land area, it has a huge population.
Although (2) But c Despite @ However
Children I 10 I by bilingual parents may naturally learn two languages.
bringing up (D brought up R have brought up @ were brought up
My sister was not a serious high school student, and I 11 I.
either I was (D either was I (D neither I was @ neither was I
Before the movie begins, please I 12 I your mobile phone is switched off.
keep
ahead of
We have made good progress, so we
c make sure
progress, so we
(D apart from
D comments af
(D nicely
c never fail
are already I 13 I schedule.
c far from
er my presentation, I felt vei
(D properly
remind

out of
Thanks to their I 14 I comments after my presentation, I felt very relieved.
B : won't
(D A : Unless B : would
@ A : While B : would
friendly
A : If
A : Until
( A ) you've completed this required class, you ( B ) be able to graduate.
@ warmly
late. I 15 I
A : Until B : won't @ A : While B : would 
Wood ( A ) be used as the main fuel, but nowadays fossil fuels ( B ) widely. I 16
A : He is
A : It is
B : for
B : for
W10 ( A ) so considerate ( B ) him to come and see his grandmother in the hospital every day.
rm
Fp3 9 Wood ( A ) be used as the me
R A '• used to B '• are used
R A 'Å° was used to B : are used
c
<D A : used to B : have been used
@ A : was used to B : have been used
@ A : He is B : of
@ A : It is B : of
B *oMvÅ‚(wi~3)K4JvÅ‚rt
-frio ri8~l~r23~l Å_ZXtlZ>i><D<D%r-%r<Dfri.&x.Åío
['.] 1 Hotel clerk: Good evening, Mr. and Mrs. Gomez. How can I help you?
Mrs. Gomez: Well, I 18 I I 19 I us how to get to the theater.
c could c if c tell c we're c wondering c you
fn] 2 Student: Excuse me. I'd like to know what we will be discussing in next week's seminar.
Professor: I haven't decided yet, so I 20 I |_21_l email.
c by c let c me @ send c the details c you
jit**, sao-*-7- <=>

-8-
•s
C 1 ~ 3 )cp#ffr<7) 1 24 1Å\1 26 I iCfeV>T. Å\ A i i> MS t & h Å·t 0
if&hzit, 4;ti4?ti(A)b(B)% t*co J; 9 T^S^HA^-^S^o
US 1 Maika: How about having a campfire on the last night of summer camp?
Naomi: It's been verv drv recently, so I 24 I
c
W2
(A) I don't think
(B) I suppose
(AMAMA)
(B)Å\(A)Å\Å‚(A)
George: Sometimes I
(A) our teachers will allow
(B) our teachers won't agree
(A) us lighting a fire.
(B) us to light a fire.
c (A)-(AMB) c (A)Å\(B)Å\(A) R (A)-(B)Å\(B)
c (B)-(A)-(B) R (BHBHA) c (B)-(BMB)
feel that I am not a very good musician.
Robin: Come on! 1 25 I
(A) No one is
(B) You are
(A) more talented
(B) the most talented
c (A)-(A)Å\*(A) (g)
c (B)-(A)-(A) c
W3
(a)-(aMb)
(b)-(a)-(b)
(A) in all the other people.
(B) than you.
c
(A)-(BMA)
(B)-(BMA)

(A)Å\(B)Å\(B)
(B)-(B)-(B)
Paul: You know, Yoko, there's really nothing more I can teach our son on the piano. He plays
better than I do now.
Vnlwv W^11 mavhp wp i 2fi i
(A) should get
(B) should take
(A) anyone else
(B) someone else
(A) teach him.
(B) to teach him.
c (A)Å\(A)-(A) R (AMA)-(B) c (A)Å\(B)-(A) @ (A)Å\(B)Å\(B)
c (BHAHA) <D (BMA)-(B) R (BHBHA) R (BHBHB)
El !JcOWv>(A~C)CfiJ:. (E&41)
El A • r=12)(7)#Bco CS3 • CHZI

[81 1 Sue: You know, Peter's birthday is coining soon. Is everything going well for the surprise party?
Polly: Yes. I've already bought and wrapped his present. Here, look.
Sue: I 27 I He might walk in at any moment.
Polly: OK. I'll put it away until the party.
c He doesn't like the color of the wrapping.
(2) I don't have the slightest idea what to buy.
R Show him what you bought when he comes.
@ You should hide it so that he won't see it.
[u] 2 Diego: Did you do the English homework? It was difficult, wasn't it?
Fred: Oh! I totally forgot about it.
Diego: You can do it during lunch time.
Fred: There's little point in even trying. I 28 I
Diego: Don't give up. You need to pass English, right?
c I'm sure I can make it. (D It'd be a waste of time.
(D Let me see what you can do. @ You don't want to miss it.
B 1 ~3)^7^77(S!i b t 9 Åí J: < -f Z>tztbÅ_zW>)U.^tzl5ff
So $its
w i r~29~i
Students in Japan are now engaging more in practical activities and less in memorization of facts in
class. Students are learning scientific principles through actual experience. ?They do well in science
in comparison with other students around the world. ^They build electric motors using everyday
goods, such as wire, magnets, and paper clips. ,^They make ice cream by hand with salt and ice
? Students say that they like the new studying style because it is practical as well as enjoyable and
educational. It is hoped that this new method will encourage students to become more interested in
science.
R.1 2 30 I
Trial and error, an approach used in science, is often found in daily life. It can be observed when
people do not feel well. Thsyhave a list of treatments they have used before. They
iSSbfeaaie internet for new treatments. They may decide to use
con aid'
jany
lit a med;, ,.i u,
nents.
treatment does nnt imnrnvp Hia rnn/Jitf/Mi tYimr trv cmnthpr nrip
-9-

^Thev are concerned about how scientific the treatment is. This is an example of how this approach
is adopted in everyday life. ^,In solving problems, scientists come up with more than one idea and
use one of the possible options.
approaches used in science and d
Poi 3 r~3n
When an idea
consider the alternatives. In this way,
life have some points in common.
Food can do more than fill our stomachs Å\ it also satisfies feelings. If you try to satisfy those
feelings with food when you are not hungry, this is known as emotional eating. There are some
significant differences between emotional hunger and physical hunger, ^ Emotional and physical
hunger are both signals of emptiness which you try to eliminate with food. ^Emotional hunger
comes on suddenly, while physical hunger occurs gradually. ^Emotional hunger feels like it needs to
be dealt with instantly with the food you want; physical hunger can wait. ^Emotional eating can
leave behind feelings of guilt although eating due to physical hunger does not. Emotional hunger
cannot be fully satisfied with food. Although eating may feel good at that moment, the feeling that
caused the hunger is still there.
c lt, t r^2~i~
r~34l o-fol^0
Professor: Good morning. I'm sure everyone did the homework reading, so I want to begin today's
class on intercultural communication. My first question is "Why do we need to study
intercultural communication?" Would anyone like to answer?
Student 1: Yes, I'll try to answer that. People may think the way they do things or the way they view
the world is "natural" and "correct." When they encounter someone doing things
differently, they regard it as "strange" or "wrong." Having an awareness of intercultural
communication can help us understand and deal with misunderstandings when they arise. I
think it is especially important these days because people travel overseas for many reasons,
such as work, study, or vacations. The opportunities to meet people from other countries
have increased greatly. With this increased contact, there are more chances for trouble
between people from different cultures.
Professor: Right. As you said, studying intercultural communication is useful because I 32 I.
c intercultural knowledge encourages people to study in a foreign country
(D some ways of living are considered to be more correct than others
(D there were many more cases of intercultural communication in the past
c we can cope with cultural misunderstandings more easily and smoothly
Professor: Let's move on to the concept of "culture." You should know that because culture is all
around us all the time, it is difficult to define. Therefore, we tend to discuss culture in
terms of characteristics. Can anyone give an example of a cultural characteristic?
Student 2: The characteristic I found interesting is that people belonging to a culture have the same
values, beliefs, and behaviors. Values are things that are felt to be of worth, like the
Japanese concept of "mottainai." Beliefs are things that people believe to be true, and
these cover a wide variety of areas. For example, people in a culture might share beliefs
about the kinds of foods that are unacceptable. Behavior is about people's actions, and
people in the same culture can often be seen behaving similarly.
Professor: That's a good explanation. That means I 33 I.
c having the same beliefs as other cultural groups is important
<D people from the same cultural group usually behave differently
(3) people's attitudes to food determine which cultures they are from
@ shared behaviors may make you a member of a cultural group
Student 3: Can I ask a question?
Professor: Of course.
Student 3: What about people who always seem to be different from those around them? Sometimes I
don't do things in the same way as my friends. So, if we need to have the same behavior
for group membership, does that mean those who are not the same aren't members of their
cultural group?
Professor: That's a good question. To answer it we need to think in terms of cultural norms rather
than individual examples.
Student 3: What is a cultural norm?
Professor: Well, a cultural norm is a rule or standard of behavior shared by members of a cultural
group.
Student 3: Then what happens to the people who do not follow the cultural norms?
Professor: Well, they may belong to a smaller group, or a sub-cultural group, but that group is still
considered to be part of the culture. This is true as long as their actions are within the
ISXtt 2017
iMÅí)
-10 -

acceptable limits of behavior for that particular culture.
Student 3: So, am I right in thinking that I 34 I?
c a culture contains groups that make up one larger group
(2) acting differently isn't allowed for group membership
c it is important to be in the group that follows the cultural norms
@ the number of sub-cultural groups should be limited
Professor: Yes. I hope this has cleared things up for you. OK. I think we're ready to move on and
think about another characteristic of culture.
• B)K&x.J:c, (BB.&35)
A yyykm.fr, T^WF^ 1 ~ 4 )<D 35 l~
1 38 1 KXfi%> C0HS Åí> JtiXJd'tiT(DR~R<T) -) "3)11^0
US consumers have benefited from an increased volume and variety of fresh-fruit imports,
particularly since the 1990s. The fruit and vegetable section in today's grocery store often has dozens
of different fresh fruits on display all year around, which come from all corners of the globe as
additions to domestic fresh fruit.
The rapid growth of fresh-fruit imports has affected many aspects of the US fresh-fruit market. For
example, while oranges are the US's leading domestically grown fruit, the volume of US orange
imports has grown steadily since the 1990s, with occasional sudden increases when the US crop
experienced freezing weather (see Figure 1).

1,000 tons
1
^ Others
Å° (A)
11 (B)
H (C)
Å† (D)
# c# ^ I# ^ ^ ^
VVVVVVVVVVV^V^V<V><V,cV>t{bT>>rSi''l?'i?>

Figure 1. US fresh-orange imports by country.

The US domestic market receives orange imports from various countries and regions. Among the
major suppliers, Mexico is a longtime source. However, due to the strong US demand for fresh
oranges throughout the year, the Southern Hemisphere countries have also become major suppliers,
especially during the summer months when domestic navel oranges are not available. Australia was
the first such country, starting in the early 1990s after it obtained permission from the US government
to export its navel oranges there. Australia was followed by South Africa in the late 1990s, and most
recently by Chile as well.
In the US, two main types of oranges are produced domestically: "navel oranges" and "Valencia
oranges." Navel oranges Å\ virtually without seeds, with flesh that separates easily and is firm rather
than watery Å\ are the most popular oranges for eating fresh. The navel orange share of US
production of fresh-market oranges was 76 percent during the years 2010-2012. In comparison,
Valencia oranges Å\ with thin skins, containing occasional seeds, and with juicy and sweet flesh Å\
accounted for 24 percent during the same period. As the US's top supplier of fresh-market oranges,
California produced 87 percent of fresh-market navel oranges and more than 81 percent of fresh-
market Valencia oranges.
The main harvest period for domestic fresh-market oranges is from November through May, a time
when California's navel oranges are in season. However, the amount of oranges produced and shipped
domestically falls significantly from June through October. In earlier years, when fresh-orange imports
still accounted for only a small portion of domestic use, Valencia oranges were a popular variety when
navel oranges were out of season. As seen in Figure 2, however, navel orange imports from the
Southern Hemisphere countries have come to dominate the US in the summer season.
• KStt 2017 ÅíEÅ}Å_AMf31HIt:*S
11
-iz>Åí-Ri&CfcK)
100,000 pounds
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
Jan
Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Domestic
shipments

Import
shipments
Figure 2. Seasonal relationship between imported and domestic oranges (2010-2012 average).

Because of seasonal production patterns, the majority of Mexico's oranges arrive in the US market
from December through June, when US supplies are relatively high. In contrast, the season for
imports from the Southern Hemisphere countries is mainly from July through October, when US
supplies are relatively low. This trend is similar to that seen with many other fruits as well.
(Sophia Wu Huang (2013) Imports Contribute to Year-Round Fresh Fruit Availability Åí##tcfpfijc)
ISJ1
R
c
(D
@
P? 2
In Figure 1, which of the following do (A), (B), (C), and (D) refer to? I 35 I
(A)
(A)
(A)
(A)
Australia
Australia
South Africa
South Africa
According to the
(B)
(B)
(B)
(B)
passage,
Chile
Mexico
Chile
Mexico
which of
(C)
(C)
(C)
(c)
Mexico
South Africa
Australia
Australia
(D)
(D)
(D)
(D)
the following correctly describes one
navel oranges and Valencia oranges? 1 36 I
South Africa
Chile
Mexico
Chile
difference between
c Navel oranges contain fewer seeds than Valencia oranges do.
<D Navel oranges contain more juice than Valencia oranges do.
(3) Valencia oranges are more popular than navel oranges in the winter.
@ Valencia oranges are more suitable for eating fresh than navel oranges.
P9 3 What is the main purpose of this passage? I 37 I
c To account for the seasonal changes in the US production of oranges
(D To explain the differences between navel oranges and Valencia oranges
(D To illustrate the relation between US production and imports of oranges
@ To improve the quality of the navel oranges produced in the US
fcfj 4 What topic is most likely to follow the last paragraph? I 38 1
c Export rates of other fruits from the US to the Southern Hemisphere
0 Statistics showing the seasonal changes in imports of other fruits
(D The shipping methods of navel oranges from the Southern Hemisphere
@ The variety of fruits commonly grown in the US and Mexico
B him#., r~39~i~r4n Å_zxtizmzm
H 1 Kazuko, a 19-year-old shop assistant, wants to participate in a museum activity but is only free
on weekday evenings. Which activity will she most likely choose? I 39 I
c Comprehensive tour
R Photography workshop
(2) Drawing class
R Short tour
M 2 A retired couple and their 6-year-old grandchild wish to participate together in a weekday
afternoon activity. Which activity will they most likely choose and how much will they pay in total?
I~45~l
c Comprehensive tour, $20
(D Comprehensive tour, $40
R Short tour, $20
@ Short tour, $28
fn] 3 Which of the following is true according to the website? I 41 I
c Advance booking is not necessary for "Art Talks."
(D Comprehensive tours are held every day.
(D The admission fee is not included in the fees of tours.
@ There are lectures given by amateur artists.
EEXti 2017 ÅíHÅ}^AKFnRIE8Å_ •

- 12 -



Octagon Museum of Art
Octagon Museum of Art (OMA) offers exhibitions and programs featuring
contemporary art such as paintings, sculptures, and photographs. Established
in 1972 by the Octagon Foundation, it has a vast collection with many
permanent exhibits, and also offers special exhibits, lectures by
professional artists and critics, classes for school children, and
tours guided by specialists.
Admission Fee: $5/person (Children 6 and under Å\ free)
Program Fees:

Short tour
(90 minutes)
Adult (18 + )
$10

Twice daily
9 am & 2 pm
Student (7-17)
Child (6 and under)
free

Comprehensive tour
(3 hours)
Adult (18 + )
$20

Tuesday & Saturday
10 am
Student (7-17)
S15
Child (6 and under)
free

Drawing class
(90 minutes)
Adult (18 + )
S15
Monday, 7 pm
Student (7 - 17)
Wednesday, 4 pm
Child (6 and under)
free
Wednesday, 10 am
Photography workshop
(2 hours)
Adult (18 + )
$17
Sunday, 7 pm
Student (7-17)
$12
Sunday, 10 am
Notes:
- The fees for tours, classes, and workshops include the admission fee.
- Sign up
here
at least a week in advance for tours, classes, and
workshops.
- We also offer "Art Talks," where invited guest speakers talk to adult
audiences in OMA Hall every other Saturday. No reservation or additional
fee is required. For this month's schedule, click here
n TO|,'!JvKI?:!] 1 ~5)(7) C3ZZ]~Q63 {zXnz><mzMi>MM%i)CO>t:,
19 c~RÅ·i o-foJi^o (SB,#. 30)
"No one thought I would amount to much," Uncle John said, as he stood in the kitchen, showing me
how he put together an award-winning four-course dinner. I had just graduated from university, and this
dinner was his gift to me. It felt great to have a well-known chef cooking for me. On top of this, I was
excited because in a few days he was going to compete in The Big-Time Cook Off, a nationwide TV
cooking contest.
When Uncle John was young, his family lived in the countryside. His mother taught at a local school,
but when John was 10, she had to quit to take care of her elderly mother. Until then, his father had
been kind and had had enough time to play with John and his two younger sisters. But as bills kept
piling up, the family got into trouble. John's father finally had to take a job in a city far away, so he
could only come home on the weekends.
Gradually, because of his busy work schedule, John's father began looking tired whenever he came
home. To tell the truth, he had changed from being good-humored to being in a bad mood all the time.
When he was home, he just wanted to rest. He often scolded John for small things. Wanting to be
accepted by his father, John tried to do his best but never felt he was good enough. Eventually, he
• EXtt 2017
-13

started avoiding his father. He began hanging out at the shopping mall with friends, sometimes skipping his
classes. Little by little John's grades got worse. His parents and teachers were worried about his future.
One Sunday morning, while John's mom was out taking care of her own mother, his father was
napping in the TV room. John's sisters were hungry, so John started to cook something for them. He
was not sure how to cook, but he did not want to bother his father.
Suddenly, the kitchen door opened, and his father was standing there. "Dad, I'm sorry if I woke you
up. Chelsea and Jessica are hungry, and I was trying to cook them some eggs." His dad looked at him
seriously for a moment. "Eggs? Eggs aren't good for lunch on a beautiful Sunday like today. Let's grill
some steaks in the backyard." "Are you sure? You must be tired." "It's OK. I like cooking. It reminds me
of my college days when I worked part-time as a cook. I'll show you how to prepare delicious steaks."
To John's surprise, his father became energetic when he started cooking. He took John aside and
explained to him in detail that cooking was, in a way, like a science project. "You need to measure the
ingredients precisely and know which items go together. If you master this, you can provide pleasure for
a great many people." John felt close to his father for the first time in a long time. From then on, John spent
more time at home. He started cooking for his family regularly, and then later for his friends at college.
John always felt happy when he cooked, and this happiness spilled over into other areas of his life.
Uncle John worked his way through college with jobs in restaurants, and eventually he became a chef
at a famous restaurant. He really liked the job and worked hard developing his own special techniques.
He was finally able to open his own restaurant serving his unique style of food. He won several awards
and cooked for the rich and famous.
This brings us back to the contest. Uncle John and I were excited about his being selected. Yet, he
shared something really touching with me there in the kitchen. "You know, Mike," Uncle John said,
"I'm thrilled to be able to go on TV as part of The Big-Time Cook Off. But what makes me the happiest
is to stand here with you, one of the people I care about, and talk Å\ just you and me. It's exactly like
what my dad did for me one fine day in summer, so many years ago. And that made all the difference in
my life."
fpl 1 At the beginning of the story, Uncle John was I 42 1.
c cooking for The Big-Time Cook Off (D making a special meal for Mike
(3) training Mike for the contest @ trying to improve his recipes
M 2 Uncle John's father began working in the city because 1 43 I.
c he was tired of living in the countryside R it was easier to spend time with his family
R the family needed more money for living R Uncle John's mother had become sick
|d| 3 Why were Uncle John's parents and teachers worried about his future? I 44 1
c He just wanted to rest at home. <D He lost interest in studying.
(D He stopped avoiding his father. @ He was no longer good-humored.
fp] 4 What helped to change Uncle John's life the most? I 45 I
c Eating an award-winning dinner with his friends
(D Entering cooking contests such as The Big-Time Cook Off
(D Making a connection with his father through cooking
@ Spending time talking with Mike in the kitchen
["J 5 What does Uncle John find most rewarding? I 46 1
c Developing unique four-course dinners for famous people
(2) Having meaningful relationships with people close to him
(D Making people happy through cooking on TV shows
@ Serving many people delicious meals in his restaurant
lil (B2Åí36)
(1) Opera is an art form that celebrates the human voice at its highest level of expression. No other art
form creates excitement and moves the heart in the way that opera does, especially when performed
by a great singer. Such singers are trained to present some of the greatest and most challenging music
that has ever been composed for the human voice.
(2) Opera is an important part of the Western classical music tradition. It uses music, words, and
actions to bring a dramatic story to life. Opera started in Italy at the end of the 16th century and later
became popular throughout Europe. Over the years, it has responded to various musical and
theatrical developments around the world and continues to do so. In recent decades, much wider
audiences have been introduced to opera through modern recording technology. Some singers have
become celebrities thanks to performing on radio, on television, and in the cinema.
(3) However, in recent years, opera has been facing serious challenges. The causes of some of these are
beyond its control. One current challenge to opera is economic. The current world economic
slowdown has meant that less money is available for cultural institutions and artists. This shortage of
0EJttt2O17ÅíB*^AStlHSjESI 9

14
money raises the broader question of how much should be paid to support opera singers and other
artists. Society seems to accept the large salaries paid to business managers and the multi-million-
dollar contracts given to sports athletes. But what about opera singers? Somehow, people have the
idea that artists can be creative only if they suffer in poverty, but this is unrealistic: If artists, including
opera singers, lack the support they need, valuable talent is wasted.
(4) Not only the shortage of money, but also the way money is managed in the opera world has led to
hardships. Principal singers are generally paid performance fees once they complete a show. They
typically receive nothing during the many weeks of rehearsal before a show starts. To prepare for a
role, they must pay the costs of lessons and coaching sessions. If they become ill or cancel their
performance, they lose their performance fee. The insecurity of this system puts the future of opera at
risk.
(5) Another problem faced by opera is how to meet the demands of audiences who are influenced by
popular entertainment. Pop singers are often judged as much on the basis of how they look as how
they sound. Therefore, opera singers, performing to audiences influenced by this popular culture, are
now expected to be "models who sing." These demands may be unrealistic and possibly harmful.
Opera singers simply cannot make a sound big enough to fill a large theater or concert hall without a
microphone if their body weight is too low. Emphasizing physical appearance over singing ability may
cause audiences to miss out on the human voice at its best.
(6) There are no easy solutions to opera's problems and there are many different opinions about the
value of opera. However, every year many young people register for music courses with hopes and
dreams of developing their talents in this special art form. The fact that opera has survived many
obstacles and continues to attract the rising generation demonstrates that it remains a respected art
form full of value.
A &<DffiWWi~5)<o Å†zZb-IZin JiS
P9 1
c
c

R
HfJ 2
Which of these statements is true according to paragraph (2)? I 47 I
Opera develops by adapting to new conditions.
Opera fans thank celebrities for performing.
Opera singers avoid singing on TV and in films.
Opera singers' life stories are dramatic.
In paragraph (3), what is another way of asking the question "But what about opera singers?"
48

W3
R
c
c
R
M4
c
c
R
@
Pn15
c
c
How do opera singers prepare?
What are opera singers worth?
According to paragraphs (3) and (4), which
Opera singers are financially unstable.

How should we use opera singers?
What sums do opera singers pay?
statement is true? I 49 I
Opera singers ask only the wealthy to attend.
Opera singers get paid before the show.
Opera singers perform better if they are poor.
Which statement best expresses the author's opinion in paragraph (5)?
Audiences know best how opera should be performed.
Microphones should be used to make opera more enjoyable.
Opera singers' voices should be valued more than their looks.
Popular culture has had a positive influence on opera.
What would be the best title for this passage? 1 51 I
How to Make Money in Opera
The Difficulties Facing Opera
(2) Opera as a Part of Popular Culture
@ The Historical Context of Opera
B
*1C<n^7>?y7{m&)Zt<nPS,&*tttbtz$><DX*hZ>o r52~l~r55~l KAfr&OKftfc
tztzL, |Bli:%co?rÅ·i3 5iLS^ii
Paragraph
Content
(1)
Introducing opera
(2)
52
(3)
53
(4)
54
(5)
55
(6)
Prospects for opera
R fEXtt 2017 ^H*Å_AttFpiaiEÅ·
15
Å°b>^-tW(aWO
(6)
R
@
Effect of world finance on opera
Opera from the past to the present
Impact of popular culture on opera
Problems in money management

60 53-
p.7
L
>^.<O^X<r> { ) rticAti&cotcko b a~d<D<pfrb 1 oM4?k (1~9)
(l) I went to the supermarket near my house, ( ) I happened to meet one of my old friends.
a. that
a. account
b. there
md at the Å°<
b. behalf
c. where
nged its desti
c. the basis
(3) It is necessary for children ( ) when they behave badly.
d. which
d. top
d. to have disciplined
(2) The airplane couldn't land at the airport and changed its destination on ( ) of the dense fog.
b. to be disciplined c. to discipline
. disciplined
My grandfather often
. anything
( ) being a mother
. Also
Some board members
. another
(4) My grandfather often said that ( ) is more precious than peace.
(5) ( ) being a mother of three, Mrs. Ogawa is an excellent executive.
(7) By the time I came back from Tokyo, they ( ) to a decision.
b. everything c. nothing
of three, Mrs. Ogawa is an excellent exec
b. As well c. Besides
agreed with the president's proposal but (
b. other c. others
d. something
d. Not only
) didn't.
d. the other
a. come b. had come
(8) A: Aren't you ready yet? We'll be late.
c. have come
c. out d. up
)?
c. will you d. won't we
) ftlwAft&Ofcfcot3L~d<D%>frb
B: Please go on ahead. I'll catch ( ) with you later.
a. in b. on
(9) A: Let's have a dance party next weekend, (
B: Yes, that sounds great.
a. do you b. shall we

(10Å\12)
d. will have come
A few years in a foreign country will give you a lot of experience.
If you ( ) a few years in a foreign country, you will gain a lot of experience.
b. put
c. spend
a. helped
Because I had a bad toothache, I couldn't sleep all night.
A bad toothache ( ) me awake all night.
a. give
b. kept
c. prevented
d. take
d. saved
My aunt said that she was willing to drive me to the airport.
My aunt said that she would be happy to give me ( ) to the airport.
a. a car b. a flight c. a ride d. a transport
 1 •ojiUfÅí$v>0 (13-15)
(13) Those who were bat the cooking class had to be very careful ,using the new knife because it
,, was cut very well.
(14) Many things about ancient civilization bare known by means rwith pictures, architecture, writings,
,,and so on.
(15) Mr. Johnson was .enough experienced to notice Ksuch a simple error cin the computer program, but
couldn't this time.
<t z&s&iczm/vr-WiTfi Kg*. & $ vÅ_>
Nurse: Good morning, This is Dr. Pearl's office.
Nobu: Hi. My name is Nobu Yamada. I was wondering if I could get ( 1 ) today for my son, Kenji.
Nurse: Has he seen Dr. Pearl before?
Nobu: No, we moved here from Japan last year, and this will be his first visit.
Nurse: I see. What sort of ( 2 ) does he have?
Nobu: Well, he woke up this morning with a high fever and a cough. He says his muscles feel sore, too.
Nurse: It sounds like influenza. There seems to be a lot of it going around now.
Nobu: In the summer?
fEXtt 2017 ÅíS*Å_AiÅ·iaSjEÅ‚

16
Nurse: ( 3 ), yes. Although it's more common in the winter, people can catch the flu any time of
year. When would you like to see the doctor?
Nobu: If you can schedule it, this morning would be best.
Nurse: We can see him at 10:30. ( 4 )
Nobu: That'll be fine.
Nurse: What was your son's name again?
Nobu: It's Kenji Å\ K-E-N-J-I. Our last name is Yamada Å\ Y-A-M-A-D-A.
Nurse: OK, Mr. Yamada, we're all set for 10:30 this morning. Since this will be your first visit, you'll
need to bring your insurance card and, if ( 5 ), Kenji's immunization records.
Nobu: I'm sorry, what kind of card do I need?
Nurse: Proof of health insurance. Didn't your insurance company issue you a card with your policy
number on it?
Nobu: Well, I have insurance through my company, but I don't know if I have a card.
Nurse: That's OK. Any type of proof will be fine. A recent receipt from your insurance company,
something like that.
Nobu: Well, I'm sure I can get something here at my office. Employees at my company are insured by
Allstate Insurance. But I didn't know I needed to bring proof with me.
Nurse: Yes, most doctors now require proof of insurance on your first visit. Otherwise, you'll have to
pay the full amount in cash.
Nobu: I see. Thanks for the information.
Nurse: No problem. See you at 10:30.
(notes) influenza 4 >7 flu influenza <D SKR immunization i'lSilifl
policy number Allstate Insurance t Å\
Ml ÅíBr( 1 ) loIOViÅòv>,
a. an appointment b. an operation c. any medicine d. any problem
ffl2 gpfi( 2 ) IzAti&Vlziii ta-dexpfrb
a. cards b. records c. symptoms d. visits
Fb13 gpfi( 3 ) a~d<7)ipfrt>
a. Actually b. Additionally c. Finally d. Mainly
4 gpjf( 4 ) a~d<Orpfrt> 1 oSO?# $
a. How does that sound? b. Not at all.
c. Well, that would be nice. d. What do you mean?
M5 ÅíPfi( 5
a. anything b. nothing c. possible d. something
a. Nobu Yamada is an employee at an insurance company.
b. Nobu Yamada found himself in a hospital when he woke up.
c. Nobu Yamada needs to bring proof of insurance to Dr. Pearl's office.
d. Nobu Yamada was instructed by his family doctor to take his son to a specialist.

El In the past, zoos were places where we saw single animals in small, empty cages. Today zoos are
changing in design; animals have more space, and some live in groups. Many zoos try to put animals in
( 1 ) that is similar to where they live in the wild. Some people who believe in animal rights argue
against having zoos, because they think it is wrong to put animals in cages. I support the idea of having
zoos, because they allow us to see wild animals that we cannot see ^otherwise, and they help
endangered species from becoming extinct.
The first reason for having zoos is that they allow people to see wild animals that they could not see
otherwise. Zoos are the only places for most people who live in cities to see wild animals. Seeing wild
animals on nature documentary programs or in books is not the same thing as seeing animals in ( 3 ).
Zoos educate people about wild animals and teach them to understand and care about them. That is
why there are school trips to the zoo, where the zookeepers tell students about the animals.
Secondly, many endangered species would become extinct if we did not have zoos. Zoos have saved
numerous species from dying out or have helped animals get healthier and returned them to the wild.
( 4 ), zoos have a valuable role to play: they have an educational role and help to preserve certain
species. It is important for animals to be treated well and kept in an environment which is as natural as
possible. Many zoos today are responding to their critics and changing the way they keep animals so
that they can continue their role without harming animals.
(notes) endangered species ISisSfe'Rtt become extinct $&i$.i~& zookeeper
die out %>
HI ÅíPJt ( 1 ) loJIO^v^
2017 ^S^AHPpIIIIES?
a.
c.
M2
a.
c.
W3
a.
M4
a.
Pp15
a.
b.
c.
d.
Pp16
a.
an environment
a state of confusion
17-
b. an institution
d. a state of protection

Itiot a~d loirfiJV'o
if there were no zoos b. if there were zoos
in other respects d. on any occasion
3 ) CAWct:i()oi a~d<DfÅ_frb lojÅò^$v>0
academic life b. business life c. campus life d. real life
^r( 4 ) a~d<D<pfrb
By contrast b. In conclusion c. On the contrary d. To my surprise
i><7)Åí a~dÅ·W>?) 1 Å°oH0f&Åí<^o
An increasing number of people enjoy watching wild animals on nature documentary programs
Many zoos are making efforts to improve the way they keep animals.
The author devotes himself to campaigning for animal rights.
Zoos are doing little for saving many species from dying out.
IfXWA V frtLXki a Å\ dcofyfrb loS^Sv^
Animals in Danger
Preservation of Wild Animals
Argument for Zoos
Zoos and Education
^reservation 01 wua Animais a. jloos ana
(A)
(1) i#jÅív>irF$c<Åí>IRS"Ci:*<7?< b^><Z>WMX"t1)Å_
RtbxmW-M7< h, v^v^&fWfJ^TOiclK-eLj:
(b) &<dhj: -5 k, ( ) fticjisfr 1 fs&a*i&svÅ_>
(1) 1 t-to 4-^Å·3 licvyy !)T*1-0
I usually run for an hour in the morning. I will take ( ) in a marathon this March.
(2) r^Å\ hSLÅíJ3#fÅív>v>fcÅíV'r&i9:^fc 0 fo
It's very ( ) of you to help me look for an apartment.
(3) R&{i Å_dr J Åí> Lv>Åío
I hear she's been taking piano lessons ( ) she was three.
(4) mÅ}MW}<OtzH>K, sic 3R, 5^a^-h;v#< dticLTv^i-To
I make it a ( ) to walk 5 kilometers for exercise three times a week.
(5) Å·#otk>i^ÅòV>o
You must take an umbrella in ( ) it should rain.
2n n n**
100
P.7
L
n#W3S#ÅíÅ‚tA,T*, RWfcSPxfcSvv,
Last month, France Å\ including Paris, the "City of Light" Å\ grew darker at night as one of the
world's most comprehensive lighting laws went into effect. From 1 a.m. to 7 a.m., shop lights are being
turned off, and lights inside office buildings must be turned off within an hour of employees leaving the
workplace. The lighting on France's building fronts cannot be turned on before sunset. Over the next
two years, rules restricting lights on signs will also go into effect. These rules are designed to cut carbon
dioxide (CO2) emissions by 250,000 tons per year, save as much as the annual energy consumption of
750,000 households, and dramatically cut the country's overall energy bill by 200 million Euros.
Despite such benefits, one might well wonder why the French Å\ and potentially all of us Å\ should
care much about light pollution in the first place. After all, doesn't light at night make our lives safer
and expand our work and play time? Isn't that more important than saving a bit of money or making a
small cut in CO2 emissions?
France's Environment Ministry took steps because, on the contrary, excessive lighting in major cities
and in many parts of the world threatens our health and the health of the natural environments on which
we rely. In his book, The End of Night, Paul Bogard agrees. Bogard reminds us that, until recently,
efforts to limit our use of light have been made in response to complaints that we have lost our starry
nights. Practical need to see stars in the night sky for navigation and star-gazing scientists' research
exists side by side with the artist's desire to paint the magic of the night sky in artwork or poetry.
Remember that famous painting by the Dutch artist Van Gogh, for instance. How tragic to think we
es:ti 2017 ÅíHÅ}^AMR?]BIE8l R
*iUÅ_K*(X)
18
might have no more "Starry Nights"!
Besides science and art, though, other researchers pay attention to the impacts of light pollution on
our health, warning that disturbing these natural patterns of light and dark, and thus the structures and
functions of natural environments, is having deep impacts on humans, creatures, and even plant life.
Scientists are investigating new ways to provide society with the light it demands for security and
commerce while greatly reducing the flood of light that is increasingly disturbing human health and the
ability of many creatures to function.
Some 30 percent of vertebrates (animals with backbones) and more than 60 percent of invertebrates
(those without) are nocturnal, coming out only at night. Many of the rest are active at dawn and dusk,
the borders of day and night. All life potentially feels the impacts of our exploding use of artificial light,
scientists say.
Every time we humans switch on a light, many animals' age-old patterns of mating, travel, and feeding
are altered, often with no time for species to adjust. On the Caribbean island of Tobago, a 2012 study of
leatherback turtles* Å\ a species that has been on Earth for 150 million years Å\ found that artificial light
on the nesting beaches is the biggest threat to survival of newly born turtles. This is a major factor in
declining leatherback turtle populations. Newly born turtles have evolved to follow the reflected light of
the stars and moon from the beach to the ocean. But they now follow the light of hotels and streetlights
instead. As a result they die of lack of water, are eaten by other animals, or get run over by cars.
Every year more and more birds traveling long distances are drawn away from their seasonal courses
by artificial light, then killed by flying into buildings. Other recent studies show that artificial light
disturbs patterns of travel and feeding for bats precisely because many bat species avoid lighted areas.
According to a 2011 study in the journal Science, bats benefit U.S. agriculture by billions of dollars
annually, simply by eating insects.
Of course, "humans are animals as well," explains Steven Lockley of Harvard Medical School's
Division of Sleep Medicine, "and so when light/dark cycles disturb seasonal patterns of trees or breeding
cycles of animals, there's no reason to think it's not doing the same to us." As recently as 1980, humans
were thought to be safe from the effects of artificial light at night. But continuing research has shown
that light at night troubles our sleep and confuses our circadian rhythms, those 24-hour biological
processes that control our body's functions. Technological advances such as LEDs (light-emitting diodes)
can improve our ability to reduce and better control lighting, but these same new lights may actually
make things worse because they contain a "blue-rich" white light that especially disturbs circadian rhythms.
More and more of the light we see at night Å\ whether on our electronic phones and tablets or in
outdoor lighting Å\ is rich with the blue wavelengths most disturbing to our body's rhythms. (More than
any other wavelengths, blue light tells our brain that night is over, that morning's blue sky has returned,
and that the day has begun Å\ the opposite signal that we want to be sending our brain in the middle of
the night.) Studies continue to suggest that the consequences of excessive exposure to light at night
include a risk for weight gain, heart disease, and other serious health problems. Last year, the American
Medical Association called for research into the "risks and benefits of workplace and environmental
exposure to light-at-night," and recommended "new lighting technologies at home and at work that take
into account the body's clock." In fact, researchers are concerned about the impact of some new lighting
technologies. LEDs are praised for being energy-efficient and clearer in color. But most LEDs are
actually brighter than the old lights, further increasing light pollution. In fact, LEDs could worsen the
effects of light pollution on human health and the environment by more than five times.
The problem is worsening as China, India, Brazil, and many other countries become increasingly
wealthy and urbanized. Satellite views of Earth at night show vast areas of the planet glowing white,
with only the world's furthest regions still covered in darkness. Some countries have passed regulations
to reduce light pollution, but most nations and cities still do little to slow down the increasing use of
excessive light
The simple act of shielding (changing the amount and direction of light) helps to control light pollution.
While we seldom use lamps without lamp shades inside our homes, most of our outdoor lighting remains
unshielded, sending light straight into the sky, into our eyes, into our neighbors' bedrooms. Until
recently, consumers had few buying choices, but now some stores offer shielded lighting. Street lighting,
stadium lighting, parking lot and gas station lighting Å\ all can now be shielded.
But then again, don't we need all this light for safety and security? Light equals safety, and darkness
danger Å\ right? This common belief alone helps to explain why many gas stations and parking lots are
lit more than ten times as brightly as they were just 20 years ago, and why light pollution continues to
grow at up to 20 percent per year. In fact, the issue of light at night and safety is complex, with little
good evidence to support these common beliefs. For example, ever brighter lights can actually reduce
security, blinding our vision. And anyway, like everyone else, criminals too fear the dark as unsafe,
seeking well-lit areas for their dark acts.
R eXtt2017ÅíB*sÅíAKiaeiEÅ‚
19
*OiÅ_K*Ot)
It is far more important to use light effectively than simply to use a lot of light. Explaining France's
new lighting rules, former environment minister Delphine Batho said that the government would like to
"change the culture" to include responsible use of light. This change will be welcome, for what experts
and studies Å\ not to mention our own eyes Å\ tell us is that we are using far more light than we need,
and at tremendous cost.
*Ieatherback turtles (izM CO 9 ? if* <DÅ\M)
1. Besides saving money and reducing CO2 emissions, France's new policies to reduce light pollution
aim to
2
3
R
(D
(D
c
c
(D
c
R
(D
(D
c
reduce the number of visible stars with less light at night
improve human health with less light at night
expand work time with more light at night
expand play time with more light at night
The leatherback turtles of Tobago are
4. The seasonal
5
10.
(D
<D
(D
c
(D
(D
R
(D patterns
sand

&
a newly discovered species under threat by light pollution
decreasing because light pollution is changing the way that they dig in the
now nesting in the water instead of on the beach
having babies on the beach that go in the wrong direction after they are born
The author mentions that leatherback turtles have existed for 150 million years to
suggest that humans have not existed long enough to understand their behavior
suggest that humans can destroy animals and the environment in a short period of time
stress that they caused modern changes in the environment
stress that they are too old to tell natural light from artificial light
of animals traveling long distances, be they birds or bats, are affected by
R mating partners
R knee pain
!5Åí*Å}2017Å}S;Ms*AttFÅ‚mE8? @
artificial lights at night.
(D songs (D speeds
The term "circadian rhythms" means
regular movements of animals at night
regular adjustment by the body to cycles of sleep and activity
sounds that animals make while traveling long distances
alternating of light and dark in the day
6. These days, researchers are particularly concerned about "blue light," as it .
(I) saves energy but is such a beautiful color that consumers use more of it
c looks like natural light and is not as bright as artificial light
c has wavelengths that confuse the body's biological understanding of day and night
R is merely a minor advance in LED technology used in electronic goods
7. According to the article, when humans do not get enough sleep due to light pollution, they may
suffer from such serious health problems as
R ear problems
The writer of this article
(D weight problems c tooth pain
8. The good news about the light pollution problem is that .
R we have the ability to control the use of artificial lights
(D the only real problem with artificial lighting is that it erases our view of the sky at night
(D it endangers our mental health, not our physical health
c it does not have much of an impact on plant life
9. The best response to critics who say light is needed at night for general safety reasons is that
R it is not that we need less artificial light at night, only that we need more natural light from the
stars and moon
it is not that we don't need artificial light at night, only that we don't need so much of it
criminals hate well-lit places as much as other people do
criminals have more trouble seeing in bright lights than other people do
R is using social and scientific facts to show the need for a reduction of lighting
R sees no solution to the environmental problems caused by lighting
(D feels that technology is more to blame for the lighting problem than human nature
c feels that if we use LEDs, we can continue to use lighting at a slightly reduced rate
Q VtrnXttKA,-?. TittSRi), (2)ÅíH#SÅòK:|RL&ÅívÅ_,
E9 What is communicating, and why do we communicate? According to Rudolph F. Verderber,
author of several books on communication, "communicating" is sharing meaning. The word "sharing" is
of key importance and indicates why communication is basic to human society. People must
communicate Å\ share meaning Å\ in order to establish relationships and complete tasks. At least two

-20-
people must interact with each other for sharing to take place. This interaction involves sending,
receiving, and responding to messages, which may be verbal (that is, spoken), or nonverbal (for instance,
nodding your head to show that you are listening to what is being said). ,.When communicating with
others, you have responsibilities both as a speaker and a listener, and the more actively you are able to
srform these roles, the more successful you are
As a student, you may think being a good s
to be in school and in life.
is most important,
actually, being an active
listener is just as vital. What does it mean to be an active listener? It means that you focus both
physical and mental energy on what a speaker is saying. Merely sitting passively, hearing but not
consciously attending, seriously limits your ability to absorb and interpret information accurately. Active
listening is the only way to come close to understanding what a speaker is saying; it means paying
attention not only to what is said but also to how it is said.
can sometimes indicate more
expresses in words. In order to receive both verbal and
good listening habits.
(1)
5
6
Å°Is about a
messages
ject than what he or she
rly, you need to develop

titf, mM-kt LTA^iiL-Cv^B^ASr^LtrAtv^o
(2) &<0 ll75>tJ15^ov^T, ( ) <Åí 7 itR














O&WlÅòfBKov>T, 50|geKo3S;ÅíÅíf:Åí&$v>o
Choose a foreign city that you would like to visit anywhere in the world, and explain why you
would like to visit that city.
• MR)'4m&
16. Contrasts in population distribution have been widely studied. The nearly 7 billion people in the
world are not ( ) distributed.
(D evenly c shortly (3) significantly
17. Which shirt do you think suits me? Do you think I look better (
0 differently
17. Which shirt do you think suits me? Do you think I look better ( ) white?
R on c in (D for R by
18. The price of coffee beans will change ( ) on the weather, the crop, or the current level of
demand.
c remaining c focusing (3) according c depending
19. The concert hall was chosen for its convenience of location ( ) its large capacity.
c in addition c the same c as well as c as well
20. You must explain the purpose of your project more clearly in order to have it ( ).
c approve c approved c approving c get approved
21. Travelers ( ) their reservations early if they want to fly during the holiday seasons.
c had better to make c had to make better c had better make c had better made
22. You should have saved money ( ) being so wasteful if you had really wanted to buy a car.
c despite c in place of c in spite of c instead of
23. In many ways, riding a bicycle is similar ( ).
c to have driven a car c to driving a car
c when you drive a car c when driving a car
24. Now that he has lived in Paris for six months, Taro speaks French ( ) greater ease.
c by c of c in c with
e eÅ‚Å}2017Å}i*^akpp^iiies?
21

25. Fast food restaurants are popular because many people want ( ).
(D to eat quickly and cheaply (D eat quickly and cheaply
(D to eat quickly and cheaply
c eaten quickly and cheaply
I&lll 2 M 13 B mm
c the eating quickly and cheaply
100 55-
p.9
L


Vocal communication in birds is usually divided into two types, songs and calls. Songs are long,
elaborated vocalizations with melodic tones, predominantly produced by male song birds, and mostly
during the breeding season. They often happen spontaneously (i.e., are not triggered by a particular
event in the environment) and have a typical daily rhythm. Calls, on the other hand, are shorter and
simpler sounds that may be produced by both males and females all year round. Calls are often
reactions to changes in the environment and they express a range of different functions, such as alarm,
flight or discovery of a food source. However, calls are also used for individual recognition and are
therefore subject to variation at the same time as they serve as signals.
Birds need to communicate to find a partner, keep away competitors, bring up a family, warn against
predators, inform about food sources and keep contact during migration and other movements. These
functions are fulfilled in different channels: hearing, sight, and touch.
The most striking communicative behaviors in birds are the vocalizations Å\ and among the
vocalizations, the songs of the song birds are particularly conspicuous. Most songs are performed when
males are looking for partners, and the expression can be interpreted as an announcement like, "Listen, I
am a sparrow and this is my territory. I want to raise a family here so females are welcome but males
should beware." The song in the sparrows and the crowing in the crows are both stimulated by the male
hormone, to attract a female and to defend a territory. The biological value of the vocalization among
crows is shown by the fact that the males that crow the most also have the highest reproduction rate.
Songs are sometimes monologues, but they can also come out in the form of dialogues, with
interaction and alignment between individuals. In species with large song repertoires, males often
engage in what is called matched counter-singing, or song sharing, for example by replying to a
neighbor's song with a similar song, or, if his song is well-known, even by singing the next song in the
sequence, thereby taking over the initiative. To counter the song of a neighbor in this way can be
considered a challenge, and evoke a response of aggression, but it has also been noted to result in social
success in terms of increased chances to attract a mate.
Counter-singing interactions are common between neighbors. To get to know the neighbor and his
song repertoire is a good strategy since it is an advantage to have familiar neighbors and well established
territories, the so called "dear enemy" effect. To know the neighbor's song repertoire gives the male full
control over the interaction and he can choose whether to escalate or de-escalate.
Counter-singing is an example of an interaction between males and it can be used in territorial
disputes. Another kind of cooperative singing, which maybe is more similar to human alignment or
synchronization, is the duets between male and female. One difference between duets and counter-
singing in males is that the duets have a more precise timing, with a fair amount of overlapping between
phrases. "Indeed, while phrases may overlap, the sounds themselves may not do so, the birds fitting
their sounds together so precisely that it is hard to believe that more than one individual is involved"
(Catchpole & Slater 1995:174). Duets are acoustic, but do not have to be vocal, since they can also
involve the drumming of woodpeckers. Their functions are assumed to be pair-bonding, at the same
time as territory-claiming, since they catch a stable relationship and signal to other males to keep away.
Singing duets is most commonly found in the tropics, where the birds do not migrate, but have relatively
constant territories the year round. Other features that are typical of duetting birds are that females also
sing and that there are permanent pair-bonds.
Songs are typical expressions for advertising, mating, and defending territory, which constitute the
reproductive function. However, birds may also communicate about an external event, that is, use the
referential function. In a series of experiments on communication in the domestic fowl it was
demonstrated that they produce calls that convey precise information about predators, as well as about
accessible food resources. For predator warnings, there are different calls for enemy from the ground
and enemy from the air. When these calls were played back to hens in an experimental setting, totally
different effects were found. The reaction to a ground alarm call is to stand up and scan the ground to
detect an enemy, whereas the reaction to an aerial alarm call is to look upwards, crouch down with head
HXti 2017 ÅíHÅ}^AKP.flgIIEflÅ_ R

22
and tail lowered.
To investigate the exact meaning of an alarm, one of the experiments included video images, where
animated sequences of a ground predator (a fox) and an aerial predator (a hawk) were displayed. The
images were placed in different places, at ground level and over the cage with the male chicken (i.e., fox
on the ground and fox in the air and hawk on the ground and hawk in the air). When the predators
were placed at unusual positions, there were fewer calls produced. The hawk elicited mostly aerial calls
no matter where it was placed (even though there were some attempts at ground calls when it was placed
on the ground). The responses to the fox were mixed: while it elicited only ground calls when it was
placed on the ground, there were more aerial calls than ground calls when it was positioned overhead. A
possible explanation for this apparent confusion is that some contextual information was missed in the
ground position, since the image was constructed in such a way as to have a neutral background, and the
chicken probably expects more background information on the ground (e.g., bushes) than from the
silhouettes in the air.
Another call with a referential function is the food call. These calls are produced when food is
discovered, alerting their fellows that there is a food source to be shared. In the domestic fowl, the
response to a food call is a downward movement and ground inspection. The use of food calls is
interesting from many aspects. The fact that the calls are used much more when there is an audience at
hand than when the caller is alone, shows that the calls are not just automated reflexes, but directed
towards a potential listener. There is an audience effect, i.e., the audience influences the behavior. But
why attract others to a food source you can eat all by yourself? One suggestion is that bringing more
birds together diminishes the risk for the caller to be attacked by a predator. However, this explanation
does not fit the results from domestic fowls, since the males are known to call more when there is a
female around than when there is a male. This suggests multifunctionality Å\ a food call can function as
a courting call in certain contexts.
The studies of audience effects have broadened the scope of communicative functions found in birds.
If not only humans but also animals are able to consider the effects of their communicative behavior, and
help others in defense and finding food, some kind of mutual aid could even be involved, so that they
help others in order to get help when they need it. However, the whole discussion of communicative
functions in animals is flawed by the fact that we don't really know what goes on in the minds of the
individuals, since all we have is their behavior and our interpretations.
1. Calls, one of the important vocal communications in birds,
R
(D
(D
c
2
3
R
(D

c
(D
R
are melodious so that a male can attract a female
are spontaneous reactions toward the environment
have various functions such as identifying other birds and raising an alarm
trigger female singing during the breeding season
The songs of a male song bird serve to
hide seasonal migration from their enemies
make females aware of their family
<D show the value of vocalization
R warn other males not to approach their zone
By counter-singing, a male bird with a large song repertoire
finds out another of his male species and they attack an enemy
has more opportunities in pairing
takes over the initiative in flying flocks
teaches other birds his song and they sing it together
4. The "dear enemy" effect of the male bird in this passage promotes
R expanding his song repertoire to become the leader of the flock
R making a decision about the effective use of his counter-singing
(D pretending to be his predator's fellow and then defeating him
0 putting the other male birds off guard and getting the food
5. In the singing duets between male and female birds, .
c a female follows a male in singing together but at a different pace
c a male bird is drumming whereas a female bird is vocalizing
(D they sing as if they are one
R they sing the same phrase interchangeably
6. A series of experiments on communication in the domestic fowl demonstrated that calls
(J) convey precise information about mating
(D have different effects according to the enemy's position
(D help the same species to access females easily
R warn predators to keep away from their food resources
7. In the video image experiment that studied the meaning of the male chicken's alarm calls,
R the fox elicits more aerial calls regardless of its position
• EÅítt2017ÅíBÅ}^AttF=i]fflIDB
-23-

9
c
c
c
c
(D
c
the hawk elicits only aerial calls regardless of its position
the chicken gives fewer calls for the hawk in the air
the chicken gives different calls for the fox depending on the fox's position
The domestic fowl makes a food call when
bringing a food place to its fellows' notice
driving its predator into a trap
responding to other fowls for ground inspection
warning other fowls so that it can monopolize food sources
Food calls are used in front of an audience because they function to
(D bring an unconscious reaction towards other males in struggling for food
<D shift the danger onto predators while a caller searches for food
c reflect the prominence of a caller in fighting against his predator
R reduce risk of being prayed on and to attract females
10. The main theme of this article is that   .
R bird communication has social and referential functions
(D calls are more indispensable to surviving in nature than songs
(3) the studies of communicative function in birds reveal the minds of the individual birds
@ vocal communication in birds is as complex as that in humans
Å· ii~2o<7)( )
E9 Mahatma Gandhi said that the real goal of education is to bring out the best in people. Wherever
we go in the world, we find that educators agree on this as an important goal of education. And when
we speak with school principals or teacher educators, they ( 11 ) say that it is crucial to bring out the
best in teachers. Yet, in spite of this general consensus around the goal of bringing out the best in
others, a lot of confusion seems to exist when it comes to the question of how to do this. Although
almost everyone in education holds the ideal of ( 12 ) others in their growth, people try to do so in
many different ways.
For a long time, many people have thought that the best way to "bring out the best" was to confront
people with what was not going well and then try to help them improve. This is what we call the
deficiency model: you try to "( 13 )" what is weak. This model is strongly intertwined with almost
every aspect of education. Look, for example, at how a teacher assesses her students after completing a
test. Very few teachers write positive remarks in the margin at places where the students have done
well. Or observe an evaluative meeting between a school principal and a teacher that focuses on
assessing the teacher's instructional planning and implementation. ( 14 ), most of the time in such a
meeting is devoted to what could be improved in the teacher's behavior and not to an in-depth analysis
of the teacher's strengths. But there are some positive exceptions. Some school principals have
discovered that professional growth among educators is strongly promoted if the evaluative emphasis is
( 15 ) what goes well and how this can be extended.
The deficiency model in education is grounded in a more general view of human growth that has
influenced our society as a whole, probably as a result of this ( 16 ) view in psychology. During the
twentieth century, psychologists have become better and better at mapping and diagnosing abnormalities
and traumas in people, at searching for causes to be found in people's life histories, and at finding and
prescribing treatments. The idea was that as soon as we know what exactly is the problem with a
person, we then may find a solution and "cure" the person. Martin Seligman, who was the president of
the American Psychology Association around the turn of the twenty-first century, took a ( 17 ) the
deficit orientation that was common among almost all of his psychologist colleagues. Together with
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, who is well known for his publications on the concept of flow, Seligman wrote
an often quoted article stating that for too long, psychology had focused on disease, weakness, and the
damage done to people. According to these two influential psychologists, a critical review of the
psychologist literature showed that the deficiency model has not been very effective in enhancing
people's well-being.
Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi emphasized that psychology had insufficiently acknowledged the human
potential. Since the year 2000, Seligman has supported the development of a completely new direction
in psychology, called positive psychology, which focuses on people's strengths as the fundamental basis
for growth. Seligman speaks about nurturing people's psychological capital in order to help them
develop resilience, the capacity to ( 18 ) and to see new opportunities in times of trouble. In the end,
this makes people happier, or, to say it in more scientific terms, it enhances people's well-being.
Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi emphasized that "treatment is not just fixing what is broken; it is
nurturing what is best." Hence, they pointed to the importance of positive traits in individuals, which
they call character strengths, such as creativity, courage, perseverance, kindness, and fairness. Central
issues in positive psychology are ( 19 ), and enhancing resilience and well-being. These seem to be
2017 ÅíHÅ}Å_AfÅíF.flBIEf? •

24
issues that are also highly relevant for education.
What has become clear through the work of researchers in positive psychology is that we can influence
our own well-being, not by just digging into our problems and trying to "solve" them, but by ( 20 ) our
strengths, our psychological capital.
11. c
12. c
13. c
14. c
15. c
16. R
17. R
c
18. c
R
19. c
c
R
0
20. R











how people can contribute their money to education-related industry
how people can interfere with other's resilience
how such strengths can help people cope better with their lives
how such strengths can set aside their well-being
building on R counting down R retreating from R throwing away
2i~25co(
n 21~25<D(
El As most people no doubt noticed given that they were robbed of an hour of sleep, Sunday marked
the beginning of Daylight Saving Time in the United States, Canada, and several other countries. For
morning people, Daylight Saving is a drag, ( 21 ) them of an hour of tranquil morning light. But for
others, "spring forward" brings with it the promise of long, lazy afternoons and warmer weather.
Like millions of other Americans who have walked heavily through an uncomfortably cold winter, I'm
looking forward to the change of season. But Daylight Saving Time is an annual tradition whose time
has passed. In contemporary society, it's not only unnecessary: it's also wasteful, cruel, and dangerous.
And it's long past time to bid it goodbye.
Daylight Saving has been an official ritual since 1918, when President Woodrow Wilson codified it into
law during the days of World War I. Nowadays, its apparent purpose is to ( 22 ): One more hour of
sunlight in the evening means one less hour of consumption of artificial lighting. In 2005, President
George W. Bush lengthened Daylight Saving Time by a month as part of a sweeping energy bill signed
that year, citing the need to reduce U.S. dependency on foreign oil.
But does Daylight Saving Time actually make much of a difference? Evidence suggests that the answer
is ( 23 ). After the Australian government extended Daylight Saving Time by two months in 2000 in
order to accommodate the Sydney Olympic Games, a study at University of California, Berkeley, showed
that the move failed to reduce electricity demand at all. More recently, a study of homes in Indiana Å\ a
state that adopted Daylight Saving Time only in 2006 Å\ showed that the savings from electricity use
were not as great as the additional use of air conditioning and heat.
The simple fact of ( 24 ) to the time change, however subtle, also has measurable consequences.
Many people feel the effects of the "spring forward" for longer than a day; a study showed that
Americans lose around 40 minutes of sleep on the Sunday night after the shift. This means more than
just additional yawns on Monday: the resulting loss in productivity costs the economy an estimated $434
million a year.
Daylight Savings Time may also hurt people who suffer from Seasonal Affective Disorder, robbing
them of light in the mornings. The switchover to Daylight Savings Time is also linked to an increase in
heart attacks as well as traffic accidents.
Those of us who have lived with Daylight Savings Time our whole lives might feel disoriented without
it. But the millions of Americans in Arizona, Hawaii, and territories like Puerto Rico, Guam, and the
U.S. Virgin Islands have survived just fine without it. Not to mention the billions of people throughout
Asia, Africa, and South America.
It's said that Benjamin Franklin first proposed a version of Daylight Savings back in 1784 as a way to
save candles. This, no disrespect to old Ben, should tell us how ( 25 ) the tradition has become.
President Obama Å\ and leaders elsewhere in the world Å\ should do the sensible thing and scrap it.
21. R
22. R
(D
23. R
24. R
25. R
accusing
adjust the time
c depriving
promote electric lighting
closed
adding
silly and obsolete
(D open
c adjusting
c
c
R
(D
<D
(D
informing c reminding
encourage consumption
save energy
no c yes
failing c objecting
silly but contemporary
ffiSCtt 2017 ÅíHÅ}^AtSF.3SIEÅ‚
25
*ai*Å·*(ttWA!TO
(D useful and contemporary
4
c useful but obsolete
&oa),
(l) %1t%Å_t, Å‚Å·WfcttBfc**+afc&ttv>o-efe. Å‚Å‚(cEffi-r^>o tzfrb^Z,
itR & mrt h mm* mm-r (oti0


*<D
Åö
(2) Åí> L<, A#c:fcWÅ‚;:*Å‚$:Å·:tl**;fcL-C&fc<D
rtf fc3Å‚ L $ JLttiH. &fct> Åí & J: 9 K3M Lfc Å‚> -fafcfctta: & fc 9 o Åö
n &026~38CD;Åí(Cov>T, TttÅ·tA4*feaÅ·4:Å‚fij4- -ti^tiR~R0':fiÅ‚?>-oaat4:?vÅ‚0
EA 26. Occasionally the train would swing near the coast and a glimpse through the trees of a
cold sea. Rain began to hit the window.
c make (D lay (D give @ set
27. We can ask questions and open up areas of their memories which would otherwise have been lost.
But no special attempt was made by the interviewers to
R compromise
c evoke
(D issue
them.
c serve
28. Some people say, black coffee is fine, but I guess green tea, which increases the speed
calories are burnt, is best.
R to
, It's '
with
c on
hat nobody can tell
situation you are in.
(D over
c at
which
29. It's vital that nobody can tell that you are a bodyguard. You have to be able to blend in completely
R however
(D whatever
(D whenever
0 wherever
30. I can't put up with his behavior and continue working with him on the new project. I think there is
a point for everyone.
G> broken c missed c breaking @ missing
31. Sue regrets not having married John. If she had not taken over her father's business, Sue
leading a happy life with him now.
R had been c has been c is R would be
32. The company's new electric cars have been selling so well domestically that the company executives
are already
Lawyer:
<D
<D
(D
c
Lawyer.
exporting them overseas.
(D expecting
c only if
ale services
(D almost
(D moved out
(D hoping R promising
he reaches the top three in this race.
(D whereas c while
(D put on
R taken over
firm if you could work with us. And
(2) It's the other way round.
R That would be a start.
(I) considering
Jack will be ab
R even though
In order to pre
R all
33. Jack will be able to advance to the final
34. In order to provide stable services, the
35. Tomorrow's excursion will be
R called off
36. Business Manager:
Anyway, it's a deal.
R It's out of the question.
(3) That's too good to be true.
staff made great efforts to improve their skills.
(D each c entire
because of rain.
Well, it should be a great advantage for our
what do you think we can arrange?
What do you think you can offer?
Business Manager: I think I can get approval for about a million dollars a year.
. If I work here, I can get you more money than you've ever seen before.
37. Sarah: I forgot to ask you earlier, but do you want anything special for lunch?
Sophie: What were you planning on?
Sarah: I was thinking of cooking some steaks on the grill but I got to wondering if you ate things
like that.
Sophie:  . You forget I grew up in America. I love a good steak.
R Are you kidding? (D Have you already cooked the steaks?
(D It's an unpleasant surprise. c You're considerate to me.
38. Jane:
Miki: That's too bad. You can't stay for dinner?
Jane: I wish I could, but unfortunately I have to try to beat the traffic.
Miki: Okay, let's have dinner next time.
I am happy to say that my condition is much better.
I hope that I will have dinner with you.
I hate to say it, but I really need to get going.
I regret that I just sold my car.
PlJtt 2017 •

26
2^19HSItt
90^

p.n

Off the coast of Western Australia, three big buoys floating beneath the ocean's surface look like
giant jellyfish tethered to the seafloor. The steel machines, 36 feet wide, are buffeted by the powerful
waves of the Indian Ocean. By harnessing the constant motion of the waves, the buoys generate about
5 percent of the electricity used at a nearby military base on Garden Island. The buoys are a pilot
project of Carnegie Wave Energy, a company based in Perth. In late February, the buoys started
supplying 240 kilowatts each to the electricity grid at Australia's largest naval base. They also help run a
desalination plant that transforms seawater into about one-third of the base's fresh water supply.
Renewable energy is not an urgent matter in Australia, given the country's plentiful supplies of fossil
fuels, particularly coal. But Carnegie's demonstration project is ultimately aimed at island nations that
must import expensive fuel for electricity, as well as military bases looking to ^bolster energy and water
security. "Island nations are all looking to be sustainable," said Michael Ottaviano, chief executive of
Carnegie. Wave energy could be a good fit, especially for islands where tropical clouds impede solar
power or where wind turbines disturb the aesthetics of tourist destinations.
,A1 Given the ocean's power, wave energy seems a promising source of renewable energy. Over the last
two decades, companies have developed various designs, including a snakelike apparatus with hinged
joints from Pelamis Wave Power; a tubelike device from Ocean Power Technologies of New Jersey and
bobbing buoys from AWS Ocean Energy of Scotland. But wave energy remains largely experimental.
The equipment is easily damaged by (f)relentless waves and strong storms. And there is a ^scarcity of
large investments needed to refine and test designs. In a blow to the industry, Pelamis collapsed late last
year after it failed to secure ^adequate financing. "The biggest challenge is funding," said Mr.
Ottaviano. "Any power generation product is capital-intensive. Anytime you want to test an idea, it
costs millions of dollars." "Energy technologies that are mainstream today, like nuclear power, were
developed for commercial use with government research and support," he said.
Carnegie's pilot project, named Ceto 5 after the Greek sea goddess Ceto, began with more than $30
million in financing from investors and the Australian government, including $13.1 million from the
Australian Renewable Energy Agency and $7.3 million from the Low Emissions Energy Development
Program. Carnegie has been working on its Ceto technology since 1999, with cumulative investment of
more than $100 million. To battle the elements that make wave energy so difficult to produce, this
technology differs from most other wave energy designs. Its buoys sit three to six feet underwater,
rather than float on the surface. This helps,. .shield the equipment from pounding waves. Mr. Ottaviano,
who grew up in Perth, near the ocean, said, "m,Everyone knows when you see a wave the intuitive
is to dive underneath."
The constant rocking of the ocean drives hydraulic pumps that push seawater and other liquids
through a pipe to a power plant nearly two miles away on Garden Island. There, the high-pressure water
turns standard hydroelectric turbines, which power a generator. Wave energy from the buoys also
pumps high-pressure water through the desalination plant, without using fossil fuels. In contrast, many
desalination plants use diesel fuel or electricity to pump saltwater at high pressure through membranes
to yield fresh water.
Carnegie is already planning to start using larger, better-designed buoys in 2017 that could each generate
one megawatt of electricity. The new technology, called Ceto 6, would use buoys 65 feet wide that could
produce four times the energy of the current prototype. The new technology would generate electricity
inside the buoy instead of at an onshore power plant. The electricity would be carried to shore by
underwater cables, rather than by pumping water through a pipe. These larger buoys would also sit in
deeper water, more than seven miles from shore, where waves are larger and have more energy. The
newer buoys would be easier to maintain because they would be m self-contained units that could be
towed back to shore. Ceto 5 uses heavy machinery on the sea floor next to each pump to smooth the flow
of the piped water. Because no water is pumped with the newer buoys, this equipment is not needed.
Ceto 6 is expected to generate 30 to 40 percent of the naval base's electricity at a cheaper rate.
Carnegie estimates that using the improved buoys in large wave farms of 100 megawatts would reduce
rates to 12 to 15 cents a kilowatt-hour Å\ a price comparable to commercial electricity in the state of
Western Australia. But on a small scale, wave energy is still costly. Carnegie's current design generates
electricity at a cost of about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour. "This is competitive with electricity from diesel."
said Mr. Ottaviano, "hence Carnegie's focus on island nations that rely on diesel." "What is needed is a
well-thought-out wave energy strategy by governments, but which no country has yet formulated. The
• EXtt 2017 ^H^AMFnlSJER
27
WiW0fc*(R
Scottish government has come closest," said Tom Thorpe, founder of Oxford Oceanics in Britain.
(l)
(2)
(3)
TH3l$(a)~( i loitfti;R i> iSl/^|S^rT<7)R~0O|^:,^ 1 ofoS^S </>0
(a) tethered
(4) fc<Dl)-~lo)e>&JcizoÅ_,*x, Wiirb 6<mc{iRÅí, Å\ifeL&^kOKttCDS-jltf&SHo
1) The sixth version of Ceto technology does away with pipes and relies on satellites to carry
electrical currents to shore.
2) Technologies such as nuclear power cannot be developed in the private sector without any aid
from governments.
3) Korean companies such as Haechon are leaders in wave energy design systems.
4) Machinery used in wave energy systems can be harmed by waves.
5) Australia isn't currently under pressure to find renewable energy sources.
6) The Ceto project was named after Ceptuno, the Roman god of the water kingdom.
7) Wave energy programs provide the majority of Australia's energy needs.
8) Desalination is the process of removing salt from seawater.
9) Wave energy technology is currently among the cheapest forms of power.
10) Clouds over tropical islands can obstruct sunrays from reaching solar panels.
Efl i>o fit,
(1) Since Anthony was Quintin's , he was not able to express his true feelings about his workplace.
(2) Though the football coach was considered cruel, even he did not want to
harsh conditions.
(3) Watching movies in the original language without
(5) If you
his players to the
can greatly enhance one's language acquisition.
to the revised terms and
designs by law.
(4) After two months of intense negotiations, the loan company finally
signed the deal.
all of the financial perks, working for a dishonest company is really not an attractive
on a measly five dinner rolls and some rain water until the
to the popular belief that writers blossom in their forties and, as a result,
proposition.
(6) Moles are blind mammals that live primarily in a environment, deprived of natural sunlight.
(7) The survivors of the bus crash
rescue team finally arrived.
(8) The author did not
maintained his popularity well into his seventies.
(9) Any modifications to the car's engine will need to be adapted in all
(10) The general
h>
R subtitles
the enemy with superior firepower and trained soldiers.
d> subsisted (D submitted R subterranean c subsequent
c subdued R subordinate R subject R subscribe
subtract (7) subdued (8) subordinate (9) subject suoscnoe
'J* h)(D~@)<?)tpfrb lo-foÅ‚0f&$v>o fit. HtWilKLtfMfcfflL-aifcfcfcvv,
Though he was the last kid chosen for the squad, skinny Brandon scored more points than anv other
2017 •
28

player.
-Å‚It just goes to show you,
-Recent
-Subject to unwanted
appearances don't always indicate a person's true ability.
that much more hazardous.
count every single nail in the box."
the most outlandish stories.
to Heimweh
(2) It's not a bad idea to get in the habit of keeping snow tires in the trunk of your car.
-Icy road conditions made the treacherous
-*"Say what you will, but I doubt they can
-One way you could get rid of
television to the wall.
(3) We don't always know for sure if we are getting what we pay for.
(4) The minimum required down payment is now 30% of the desired loan amount.
stock market returns have resulted in increasingly steep banking policies.
(5) "But mommy, I saw the bird fly into my room, steal the ball and drop it on the car window below. I
swear!"
-Faced with certain punishment, some children will
(6) "Good advice, but I already considered that. Unfortunately, the baby's room is on the other side of
that wall."
and make the living room appear larger, is to attach the
(7) "Two hands clap and there is a sound. What is the sound of one hand?"
Å\Buddhist riddles represent both the object being and the endless seeking itself.
(8) "Where have you been all my life, you spectacular vision of beauty?"
from desperate male customers, some women would never consider a
job as a waitress at a bar.
(9) Language might be viewed as a set of mutable markers, signifying humankind's desire to express our
ever-changing needs and emotions.
-In modern German, Fernweh (literally "farsickness"), was coined as an
(" homesickness ").
<JM&y x h)
R create c clutter c attention c antonym
c outward c accurately c sought c journey

Director: Okay, everybody, quiet on the set! We're about to roll the camera!
R createc
antonym
journey
dull
 c clutter c attention
c outward c accurately c sought

Director: Okay, everybody, quiet on the set! We're about to roll the camera!
Assistant: Wait! I didn't hide the microphone on Sam!
Well, hurry up Å\ we have to get this scene done before we lose the light. Are the actors
ready?
Yes, but Samantha says she's thirsty...
Are you serious? Get her some water!
(from a distance) Make sure it's bottled water! I only drink bottled water!
It's bottled, dear. It's from France, okay? Now please, get into position. We're losing light!
Can I ffl ?
We really can't afford the time right now. Can't you wait until the next scene? And,
Jonathan, please tell me you've memorized your lines...
Yes, stop asking me! How can I get into character with you yelling at me all the time?
I'm not yelling... Jon, you messed up yesterday and we can't risk wasting another morning
on location... We're [2] a lot of money to keep this street closed.
Director:

Assistant:
Director:
Samantha:
Director:
Jonathan:
Director:





That information isn't helping me!
The microphone's ready!
These shoes really are too tight....
Oh, god! Wardrobe!!!
Those shoes are her size Å\ her feet must be swelling...
How dare you say that! My feet aren't swelling!
Yes, dear... They're beautiful feet. And
SI
anyway. Now, can we shoot the scene?
Jonathan:
Director:

Jonathan:
Assistant:
Samantha:
Director:
Wardrobe:
Samantha:
Director:
(,Samantha sneers at the wardrobe person, nods and calms down a bit.)
Director: OK, quiet everybody! Start camera!
(The actors begin the scene.)
Samantha: "It really is a lovely day for a walk in New York City, isn't it?"
"You look beautiful with the fall leaves behind you."
"You say the nicest things... (They continue walking.) Oh, look at the gorgeous rings in
that window."
"Actually, it's not an accident we're walking by here right now..."
"What do you mean, dear?"
"I mean, I want you to pick out your favorite ring..."
"But those are diamond rings!"
Jonathan:
Samantha:

Jonathan:
Samantha:
Jonathan:
Samantha:
R estt 2017 AKPPISIE^
Jonathan:
Director:
Jonathan:
Director:
Jonathan:
Director:
Jonathan:
-29-

"Yes, I know. I'm asking if you would be my wife."
Cut! It's not: "I'm asking if you would be my wife," it's: "I'm asking you to be my wife"!
Does it really matter? To me it's the same thing...
No, it's not! The script clearly states: "I'm asking you to be my wife"! That's the way it was
written. We can't ffl from the script!
Well, I think you're being way too sensitive...
Jonathan, please, EJ ... Just say the words as they were written.
Okay, okay! But I think you are overreacting...
Director: Let's back up to the trees and reshoot the scene!
Samantha: These shoes are killing my feet!
Wardrobe: I brought a size 10...
Samantha: I don't wear a size 10! Oh, just (S them to me!
(,Samantha puts on the bigger shoes.)
Director: Okay, everybody, actors in position! Let's start the scene again!
(The actors begin the scene.)
Samantha: "It really is a lovely day for a walk in New York City, isn't it?"
Jonathan: "You look beautiful with the falling leaves behind you."
Director: Cut!
Jonathan: What now?
Director: The leaves are not "falling"! We had to special order those trees from Arizona. "Falling
leaves" sounds like it's winter! It's not winter, it's autumn!
Jonathan: I think you need to relax a little bit...
Director: Jonathan, you know that I like you. And I realize that you are very popular 0 ,
but I need you to focus and say your lines correctly.
Jonathan: Okay. I'll nail it this time, I promise.
Director: Actors in position! Start camera!
(The actors begin the scene.)
Samantha: "It really is a lovely day for a walk in New York City, isn't it?"
Director! I think the battery died!
What?
We're not [8] from the microphone.
Assistant:
Director:
Assistant:
Director:
Jonathan:
Director:
(20 minutes later.)
Director: This is
This can't be happening! Somebody replace the battery in Sam's microphone!
Can I go to the bathroom now?
Yes, go ahead...

m
chance we have to shoot this. Please, everyone, let's make it happen!
Roll the camera!
(The actors begin the scene.)
Samantha: "It really is a lovely day for a walk in New York City, isn't it?"
Jonathan:"You look beautiful with the fall leaves behind you."
"You say the nicest things... (They continue walking.) Oh, look at the gorgeous rings in that
window."
"Actually, it's an accident we're walking by here right now..."
Cut!

Samantha:

Jonathan:
Director:
Jonathan: What?
Director: You said: "It's an accident", but it's not! You
Jonathan: I guess so...
by the window with her, right?
Director: Then please don't say it was an accident! Oh, forget it! We'll just use the first take.
(l) TISSI5 l -gt llCkcDiA
lKLiMMLTttifcfcn,,
R
(D
(D
c
planned to walk
go to the bathroom
I'm begging you
improvise a famous line
they won't be in the frame
c
c
c
with the younger audience
getting a signal
absolutely the last
shut up and give
paying the city
1 o-f
(2) i)~5)o#Å‚HKJtLr*tas
OjgUf&SV^
1) What adjective (W&M) best describes Jonathan?
R competent c dishonest (D inattentive
2) What adjective best describes Samantha?
c timid

*iU*B(*(S) (&)
30
R bashful
i How would yoi
c metropolitan
i From the evide
R mystery
c arrogant
>e the place when
c mountainous
tained in the dialc
c comedy
3) How would you describe the place where they
(3) generous
are shooting the film?
R coastal
4) From the evidence contained in the dialogue, what
@ reasonable
0 rural
genre of film is being produced?
(D romance
@ adventure
5) Which of the following seems to be the director's biggest concern?
(D Buying the perfect ring for his girlfriend c Filming Samantha's beautiful shoes
(3) Getting the dialogue as accurate as possible c Using background music effectively
2 ^ 18 BSbJfi
is an effective way to maintain good oral health.
90 33"
p.12
D Å‚!MKÅ·Fx.4:ÅòvÅ‚0
A legal change has made it likely that some third-year high school students will become eligible to
vote in next year's House of Councillors election, but little has been done so far to prepare these new
voters for the important decisions they will make at the ballot box.
Educating these youths about their new voting rights is made more urgent by the persistently low
turnout of young voters overall. Unfortunately, only a handful of high schools are offering information
on voting and elections. Many remain unsure how to broach the subject in class while respecting the
political neutrality of education.
Such concerns came to the fore recently when the upper house voted to lower the voting age from 20
to 18 by revising the Public Offices Election Law. The change will likely take effect ahead of an upper
house election in the summer of 2016.
One school that has taken steps to prepare students to take part in elections is Igusa Metropolitan High
School in Nerima Ward, Tokyo. The school has held several ,,mock elections designed to increase
students' awareness of the election process. The first was held in 2012. Students "voted" in the school's
version of the Tokyo gubernatorial and national House of Representatives elections that were held in
December of that year. The students cast votes for actual candidates and parties and the event was
timed to coincide with the real-life polls.
The students chose for themselves whom to vote for after learning that there were different views on
some issues by reading candidates' election pledges and comparing content from various newspapers.
The school also held a mock election for the December 2014 lower house election. Though
participation in the mock elections was voluntary and voting was held after school hours, more than 70
percent of the student body cast ballots Å\ a high percentage compared with actual voter turnout in
recent elections.
"I'd like to hear what the candidates have to say with my own ears," one student said.
Mr. A, a civics teacher at Igusa High School, said he felt the school's mock elections had heightened
students' awareness of the importance of participating in the political process. "This project wasn't as
difficult as I had expected. I hope more schools will follow our example," said Mr. A.
Mr. B, an associate professor at the University of Tsukuba and an expert in social studies education,
said it was vital that Igusa's efforts be replicated elsewhere.
"To nurture socially responsible voters, teachers need to clear away the walls between the classroom
and society, and they need to willingly handle politics and topical issues," Mr. B said.

Holding mock elections is one method advocated by the Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology Ministry to raise interest in elections, but so far only a handful of schools have followed
Igusa's example.
"There are many other things we have to teach," a teacher at a private high school in Tokyo said.
"We can only touch briefly on the voting system and the significance of an election."
Such sentiments are expressed in the context of ^a curriculum that tends to prioritize preparation for
university entrance exams and shy away from instruction on substantive political issues in deference to
preserving the political neutrality of education.
For teachers, this can be a tricky balancing act.
"I think elections are wonderful as practical teaching material, but we have to be highly sensitive when
handling these issues," admitted a 55-year-old civics teacher at a high school in Tokyo.
• exa 2017
Some teachers are unsure whether they are
other details if they bring up party campaign
instructors requesting clearer guidelines.
-31-
*Ui*R*(SO

allowed to mention the names of political parties and
pledges or key election issues. Other gray areas have
"I want the central government to clearly stipulate what points we need to be careful about when we
discuss elections in class," another teacher said.
At high schools that have conducted several of these mock elections, teachers avoid simply drilling
information into the students. They must stay conscious of the need to remain ( b ) and make students
think for themselves by providing balanced instruction on the campaign pledges made by each party.
This can be ( c ) task for inexperienced teachers and school administrations.

The Education Ministry and the Internal Affairs and Communications Ministry are hurriedly preparing
a manual for teachers and new supplementary material for high schools to help them teach students
about the lower voting age.
"We hope to distribute them before the start of the third term," a senior official of the Education
Ministry said.
However, it will be difficult to set aside instruction time on this topic for third-year students after the
New Year comes around, and there will only be about six months between this time and when the
current batch of second-year students who could become eligible to vote will actually go to the polls.
Given these time constraints, the Education Ministry is particularly concerned about ensuring that high
school students do not inadvertently violate election laws.
Third-year classes at high school contain a mix of 18-year-olds who may soon be allowed to vote, and
17-year-olds who will still be too young. An 18-year-old can legally take part in campaigns to spread
election messages on Twitter and other social media sites. If a 17-year-old Å\ an ineligible voter Å\ does
the same thing, they run the risk of violating election laws. The Education Ministry plans to explain
igSuch dangers by compiling a list of concrete examples and using illustrations.
For the time being, the education of 18-year-old voters could end up having an emphasis on preventing
election violations. (June 19, 2015 "The Japan News")
BiSiiglR : Mr. A, Mr. B tz)
WW (1~2) :
1. What is the first official election students will take part in?
c House of Representatives election. c House of Councillors election.
(D Tokyo gubernatorial election. 0 Lower house election.
2. What is the main issue being discussed in this article?
c Impact of lowering the voting age. (D Changing the Constitution.
R Lack of political neutrality in education. R Futility of mock elections.
i?gv>n (3~9) : TÅ‚(aHcov^T. {CR, &XltÅí
3. The mock elections were carried out to deepen students' understanding of actual elections.
4. Students went to the official Tokyo polling stations and experienced voting for their preferred
candidates.
5. Before voting, students read and studied the candidates' pledges.
6. Even though voting was not compulsory, an unexpectedly high number of students took part in
the mock elections.
7. No students were interested in listening to what the candidates were saying.
8. None of the teachers feel that the mock elections were successful.
9. Some experts say that the mock elections should be used as a model for other schools.
fp]i/1 III (10) : Why are elections difficult for teachers to handle in the classroom?
c Because the Public Offices Election Law prohibits teachers from mentioning the names of political
parties.
c Because there are no clear guidelines.
(3) Because candidates change every year.
c Because teachers are worried about complaints from parents.
c partisan c biased c neutral c unchanged
P^V(12) : ol^jv>0
c an irresponsible c an easy c a challenging c an upgrading
Pb|u> VI (13) : What would be the best title for this passage?
c Political partiality of education c Preventing election violations
R Voting age of 18: a challenge for schools c Mock elections: an ineffective teaching method
M^fll lÅíaMfoo, B*KTb^i) ^"t < E99 $v^Q
EEJttt 2017 ^HÅ}Å_AttFo1BiES? •

&
Wi!tf6|R*(Si)
32
n (14-23) :TÅ‚Å‚0~Sfc*%*l*<OiSvÅ‚*SSS:-tii-?iia#?IRR~R^"5>aOf!5:3vÅ‚o
mm Japan continues to draw record numbers of foreign visitors. In April, the number hit 1.76 million,
setting new record highs for three months ^in a row. The number of Chinese tourists visiting the
country during the popular cherry blossom season more than doubled compared to a year earlier. The
number of inbound tourists in the first four months of the year surged 43 percent from the same period
of 2014. If the trend continues for the rest of the year, the annual total could reach close to 20 million.
It would not be surprising if the government's goal of welcoming 20 million annual inbound tourists is
achieved well ahead of the target year of 2020, when Tokyo hosts the Summer Olympics. The Abe
administration has set a new goal of ^boosting consumption by inbound tourists from Å_2 trillion last
year to Å_4 trillion by 2020. It hopes to develop inbound tourism into a new engine of the economy that
will generate 400,000 new jobs.
The government should identify what policy steps still need to be taken to make Japan an attractive
destination and should steadily implement the measures so that the inbound tourism boom will become
a long-term trend rather than a temporary phenomenon Bat the mercy of economic and other factors.
With the economy still mired in sluggish growth, the retail industry has come to rely greatly on robust
demand by tourists from other parts of Asia, especially visitors from China, who buy so much that their
shopping sprees have been labeled "explosive." Their total consumption in the January-March quarter
Esurged 64 percent from a year before.
The government has introduced ^measures to promote inbound tourism and consumption, such as
easing visa requirements and expanding the scope of goods that are exempt from the consumption tax.
But the primary reason for the boom is the continuing economic growth in many other Asian economies,
which boosted the income levels of people in those countries and their appetite for overseas travel, and
the yen's fall against other currencies, which made visits to Japan more affordable.
International tourism can be affected by various factors, ranging from economic conditions to tensions
in relations between countries, infectious diseases and natural disasters. Inbound tourism to Japan
^plunged sharply when the nation was hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Fukushima
nuclear crisis in 2011, and the number of Chinese visitors has risen and fallen Bin accordance with the
state of bilateral ties, which have been repeatedly strained over a series of issues.
To help maintain the upward trend, further government and private-sector efforts are needed to make
Japan more attractive as a travel destination. Such efforts can start with ensuring there is enough staffing
at customs and immigration checkpoints at airports to ^keep pace with the rise in the number of visitors.
The inbound tourism boom has pushed up room occupancy rates at many hotels, with figures topping
80 percent in Tokyo and Osaka last year Å\ in some cases resulting in room shortages. One solution
would be to diversify the destinations of foreign tourists, which still tend to be concentrated in Tokyo,
Osaka and other well-established tourist areas. Earlier this month, the government identified seven areas
across Japan as alternative routes for inbound tourists, and plans to ^subsidize public-relations
campaigns and other efforts by local organizations.
While attention tends to focus on the surge in the number of foreign visitors and their spending, their
total consumption is still a Bfraction of the demand by domestic tourists, who spent Å_18.8 trillion in
2014, down by Å_1.4 trillion from the previous year. Efforts to revitalize domestic travel demand Å\
which is forecast to be on a downward trend with the nation's low birthrate and graying population Å\
should also be made to sustain the travel industry. Such an effort can contribute to enhancing Japan's
attraction for all tourists.
















Andrea: I was just reading an article on how the things that you do right before bed can have a big
( 24 ) on your life.
Erica: That's so true. I've heard that it is such a great time of the day to actually start a daily ( 25 )
because the day is winding down so you're not rushing around to get stuff done.
KXti 2017 AKRSSiES?
33

Andrea: I've often tried to do that but have never been that successful at it, to tell you the truth.
What I have personally found that really relaxes me though is doing some nighttime reading
before I ( 26 ) off. I keep a great "to read" pile right beside my bed on my nightstand.
Erica: Yes, I too have found that really works. My only problem has been that if I pick something
too exciting, such as a good mystery novel, I can't put it down. I end up getting so ( 27 ) in
it, that I never get to sleep.
Andrea: Totally know what you mean. Can't tell you how often I didn't end up putting the light out
until way after 1:00 AM. I would then sleep through the alarm, so have started to think I
have to try something new.
Erica: I have found that getting ready for the next day also helps. If I prepare everything the night
before, like what I'm going to wear and packing my bag, it gives me one less thing to worry
about and puts my mind to rest. I'm also not ( 28 ) around in the morning.
Andrea: I too try to be quite good about that. Definitely makes for a much less ( 29 ) morning. I also
have found recently that a good stretch before bed helps.
Erica: My mother swore by that. She always used to say that stretching was not only good for her
joints and ( 30 ), but that it also helped her with her sleep. She stretched for about 30
minutes a night religiously. She never became arthritic like her mother either.
Andrea: My mother's habit was to try to go to bed 15 minutes earlier every night than she had
originally planned to. She was always going on about how we all just weren't getting enough
sleep, and how sleep ( 31 ) could have serious effects on our health and productivity the
next day.
Erica: Not a bad idea. If only it were that easy. Heard meditating was quite effective too. It's
supposed to help decrease stress levels and give you ( 32 ) of mind.
Andrea: Yes, the benefits of meditating seem endless; apparently better memory, more creativity and
less anxiety.
Erica: What are we waiting for? We really need to start ( 33 ) some of these ideas into practice.
No better time to start than tonight!
R deprivation c doze c engrossed c flexibility c hectic
c impact c peace c putting c routine c scrambling
B (34~38) : Read the following conversation that has words deleted in certain places. Choose the word
or phrase marked R, c, R, or R that best fills the numbered parentheses from the choices below.
Student: Is this the Foreign Language Discussion Room?
Staff member Sure is. How can I help you?
Student: Well, I've heard that using the Discussion Room is a good way to improve my English
speaking ability, but I'm a freshman and I'm not sure how the system works. ( 34 )
you explain it to me?
Staff member Of course. It's very simple. We offer informal group discussion sessions in English six
times a day, on a variety of different topics. Just check our website to find a time and
topic that ( 35 ) you, and make a booking.
Student: Is it possible to just drop in on the day without making a booking?
Staff member. Yes, but each discussion session has a maximum of 8 participants, so it's ( 36 ) to book
in advance to make sure that you don't miss out.
Student: I see. Do you also offer discussion sessions in languages ( 37 ) English?
Staff member Yes, at present we have discussion sessions in Korean, Chinese, and French. These
discussion sessions are only held once or twice a day, though.
Student: I'm also enrolled to study Chinese, so it's good to know that I can also practice that
language in the Discussion Room.
Staff member By the way, you can get extra credit in some language classes ( 38 ) you take part in
Discussion Room activities. Make sure you ask your English and Chinese teachers
about this during orientation.
Student: I'll be sure to do that. Thanks for the advice!
Staff member You're very welcome.
34
35
36
37
38
4
R May c Please R Could
R convenient (D suits R appeals
R wise c useless R not advisable
R other than c additional R apart
R although c by c and
(39Å\48) :
39. Her new puppy is always getting (
R onto
c through
) trouble.
(D by
c
c
c
c
c
R into
Let
fine
typically
including
if
BiXtt 2017 Å}HÅ}Å_AHf2MIER •

40. It's going to rain heavily today, (
R so c however
-34-

) don't forget your umbrella.
(D but
c because
41. When we were children, we ( ) go swimming in the river every summer.
R often
42. Climates (
R turn
c never
) from country to country.
(D exchange
(3) would

(D vary
43. I'll ( ) my stay in Japan for a few days longer.
(D expand (D spread (3) extend
44. I instantly ( ) his face, but I couldn't remember his name.
R realized c understood (3) figured
45. Lucy wanted ( ) of the two boxes.
R a larger c largest R the larger
46. Since Mary speaks so softly, I can never make ( ) what she
c in c out R at
47. Do you know how the fighting between the two boys came (
R with c by R about
48. There is (
(D not to tell
) when you will meet Mr. Right.
R not telling
c will
@ convert
c enlarge
c recognized
R a largest
c for
c from
R no having told @ no telling
Please write around 100 words about the following topic, using your own English.
What is your greatest fear and why?
3
4

5

6

7
2

3
em• mm• &• mmrm•
)
(3) they c we
) their military budgets and capabilities in recent years.
(D been expanded by
c been expanding
mm
60
p.14
J
&co 1 -10R ( )
1
In that country, ( ) can be jailed for insulting members of the
structures
2. The climate is (
c hardly
(D presence
) growing warmer,
(D definitely
The museum ( ) a large collection,
R accompanied (D accounted
(3) matters
but we can't predict exactly how
(D closely
royal family.
R residents
hot it will get.
R doubtfully
from Picasso's to Asian sculptures.
(D assembled
American society claims to reward the best and brightest (
R regardless
One of the (
R times
(3) most
c light
ese worker
c means
ese are in (
c daily
@ resembled
) of family background.
R ancestors
) of these workers is that they use their brains as well as their hands.
) touch with the world through the Internet.
Millions of young Chinese are in (
(D entirely
R partly
(3) characteristics
All war requires a heroic narrative Å\ to inspire soldiers to risk their
them or their survivors feel they have not suffered or died in vain.
1 ~6<0 ( ) 1 o-fogtf&S^o
1. Have you finished ( ) the morning paper yet?
having read c reading (D to read R to be reading
10. ( ) repeated assurances that the product is safe, many people have stopped buying it.
R By c Despite (D Whenever c However
R cause <D require R demand
8. ( ) of income and wealth has risen in the U.S. since the 1970s.
R Decisions c Society (D Earnings
9. I thought I'd take ( ) of the sports facilities while I'm here.
R place (D advance R advantage
0 gradually
lives and, afterward to (

0 make
c belongings
@ Inequality
R presentation
Without economic growth, ( ) cannot be sustained gains in income, health, and other areas.
(D it
R there
. Most Asian nations have (
R been expanded
R expanded by
@ IEÅítt2017ÅíBI*^AttR!ffiIEÅ‚
-35-

&
4
5
6
Major polluters must immediately begin to reduce greenhouse gas emissions if we want to stop the
rise in global temperatures, ( ) a higher price will have to be paid later.
R so (D or else
(3) by the way @ on the contrary
It is impossible ( ) a solution to the conflict in that country without the intervention of some
outside force.
(D be imagined
(D be imagining
to imagine
to have been imagined
Atomic clocks are already the most accurate clocks in existence, typically ( ) only a second every
100
(D

3
million years or so.
losing or gaining it
lost or gained
R losing or gaining
0 lost or gained it
( A )~( E ) I:ASS411 ofOli^^ JvÅ_
Hiroshi is getting advice from his teacher Kevin about his upcoming visit to Britain.
Can I ask you about British customs?
Of course. ( A )
Sorry? Oh. No. Not "Customs" at the airport, I mean customs and culture.
Oh, right. What do you want to know?
About tipping. How much am I supposed to tip people?
That's a good question. It depends on where you are.
OK. How about in taxis?
You don't have to, but we normally tip the driver. You decide how much for yourself. If the
fare was 7 pounds, I'd give the driver a 10 pound note and say "take 8." That's a pound tip.
( B )
How about in restaurants?
It depends on ( C ). In a pub it's not necessary. In a more expensive restaurant, maybe about
10% of the bill, but again you don't have to. It's just good manners. Even if the bill says
"Service not included", the staff are paid at least a national minimum wage by law, ( D ) it's
not necessary.
How about hotels?
Well, the porters who carry your bags to your room in big hotels expect a couple of pounds.
Mind you, I hate that. But it's nice to leave a pound or so for the room cleaners, especially if
( E ).
That's all pretty vague. I wish it was more like Japan!
If it was, travel wouldn't be very interesting, would it?
No, I guess not.... Åö
(A) c


0
(B) (D
(D
(c) R
(D) R
(E) R
What customs in particular?
Do you want to know what you're allowed to take into the U.K.?
Do you mean compared to Japan?
That's a very vague question.
4
2
It's compulsory.
It's good manners,
what you like
why you're there
so
you hate that
it's a service
c even
&<D 1 ~ 6 (D&i&lDMICO (
1.
3
c
c
c
c
<D
c
c
It's included in the fare.
It's not fair.
when you ate
what kind of restaurant
when
you've made a mess
0 where
you have a lot of room
4

Make ( ) of this opportunity; it's very rare.
The old train station is now out of ( ); it used to be a very busy place.
(D advantage
end to the fighting?
(D use
R freedom
) up with the house not being tidy, but I hate it if it's not clean.
We have (
, In the long (
(D lack
(D give R make
) out of good ideas for improving our sales.
), it will come to the same thing.
(D period R go
@ come
@ ran
@ then
2017 ^H^AiSPDlKO? •
-36-
,-1 cannot ( ) admiring the poet who survived the war.
' We can't ( ) the bad weather.
CD last c get c help c have
^ The government should ( ) every effort to stimulate the economy.
' I couldn't ( ) out what they were talking about.
c bring c take cdo c make
n 1 )~( 5 ) 1
Bfl There is inequality in any society. Even in the simplest hunter-gatherer band, some people are
bigger, stronger, or smarter than others. Further, some people have more power than others: they are
more able to determine the behavior of others than vice versa. Some people acquire more wealth than
others. Some people are given more status and respect than others.
Physical and intellectual capacities, power, wealth, and status may or may not (1. R grip, c go,
c have, c become) together. Successful athletes, artists, and scientists usually enjoy status, but only
in some societies do they enjoy wealth as well, and rarely do they have political power. Politicians in
some countries can enjoy status and power without wealth; businesspeople can have wealth and power
without status. Such inconsistencies among the various areas of inequality are often felt to be problematic.
In some societies people try to (2. c resolve, c repeat, c regain, c research) them by making
the areas more consistent. Athletes turn professional to become wealthy; politicians exploit their power
and / or move onto attractive business positions in order to do the same; successful businesspeople enter
public office in order to acquire status. This (3. c wealth, c trend, c equality, c status) obviously
increases the overall inequalities in these societies.
In other societies the dominant feeling is that it is a good thing, rather than a problem, if a person's
rank in one area does not match his or her rank in another. A high rank in one area should partly be
*offset by a low rank in another. This process increases the size of the middle class in-between those
who are on top in all (4. c societies, c people, c laws, c respects) and those who lack any kind
of opportunity. The laws in many countries have been conceived to serve this ideal of equality by
treating everybody as equal, but there are (5. c few, c a few, c many, c entire) societies in
which reality matches the ideal.
* offset : cancelled out

Ui (A) Around the world, food waste is increasingly seen as a serious environmental and economic
issue. With many families on tight budgets and the global population growing every year, there is
increasing awareness of the resources used carelessly to produce food that is never eaten.
The United Nations estimates that a third of all the food produced in the world is never consumed,
resulting in a total of about 1.3 billion tons of waste a year. In the United States alone, about 40
percent of all food, worth an estimated $165 billion, is wasted, according to a 2012 report.
It is estimated that the food discarded in the developed world by retailers and consumers alone
would be more than enough to feed the world's 870 million hungry people.
The main idea of this passage is that we should
c be able to produce more food for an increasing population.
c not waste produced food.
c visit the United States in order to see how food is wasted.
c tell retailers and consumers in the developed world to feed the world's hungry people.
(B) In Britain, which has some of the most comprehensive data on food waste available, each family
discards, on average, $1,170 worth of food a year.
The environmental consequences of waste are enormous with vast quantities of water, fertilizer and
land used to produce food that is never eaten, and with fuel burned to process, refrigerate, and
transport it.
In developing nations, food waste often happens soon after harvesting, when crops are being stored
or transported, because a shortage of refrigeration and good roads makes it difficult to get food to
market before it spoils. In wealthier countries, waste often begins with retailers rejecting items that
they think will not appeal to customers. But the single biggest force of waste is in homes, where about
half of all uneaten food is estimated to be discarded.
The Food and Agriculture Organization has sought to draw attention to the issue with its campaign,
which urges shoppers to plan before shopping and to freeze more food. The campaign advises that
people should also trust their eyes and noses rather than relying on sell-by dates to decide whether
food is spoiled. The organization is working with supermarket chains to reduce waste by clarifying
expiration dates and selling smaller portions.
According to the passage, which statement is true?
c In Britain, $1,170 worth of food a year is available.
• eXtt2017ÅíH*^AKPpmEÅ‚
<D
(D
c
-37-

Food waste has little to do with the environment.
Freezing more food decreases the amount of food discarded.
The Food and Agriculture Organization advises people to rely on sell-by dates in order to live a
healthy life.
(C) Such efforts have helped Britain cut food waste by 21 percent since 2007. It is said to be the only
country in Europe to have achieved such a reduction,
Tesco, the first British supermarket chain to publish its waste figures, reported that 28,500 tons of
food went to waste in its stores and distribution centers in the first half of 2013 Å\ 0.87 percent of its
sales volume. That is only a small fraction of total waste in the country, however. The most frequently
wasted items are fresh produce and baked goods, according to a spokesman for Tesco. He said that
bags of lettuce top the list with 68 percent of total production discarded.
The supermarket chain is looking at such "waste hot spots" and has introduced lettuce in bags with
two compartments, so that consumers can use one half while the other stays fresh, the spokesman
said. Tesco is improving some supply processes so that grapes, for example, arrive in stores five to ten
days sooner, giving consumers more time to eat them, he said.
According to the passage, which statement is true?
c Tesco succeeded in reducing food waste by 21 percent in 2007 compared with the previous year.
(D Lettuce accounts for 68 percent of the profits that Tesco generates.
(D The new lettuce bags helps consumers keep the vegetable fresh for a longer time.
c Tesco supplies grapes five to ten days earlier so that consumers can eat them at the beginning of
the season.
(D) In South Korea, a major effort to reduce food waste has come at the government level. In the hope
of reducing food waste by 20 percent, the country has introduced a system that charges for garbage
disposal by weight.
Chinese leaders issued a memo urging officials to scale back on lavish banquets, instructing
government-run cafeterias to serve smaller portions and asking restaurants to make it easier to order
less, the Chinese official news agency reported. The government is also drafting a law on food waste,
the agency reported.
In the United States, the state of Massachusetts is requiring any institution that throws out more
than a ton of food waste each week to *compost it instead.
In Greece, the economic crisis has also driven a new focus on waste. One group in the country
started an online hub to help small shops with excess food connect with people in need nearby.
*compost: allow food to decay so that it can be added to soil to help plants grow
According to the passage, which idea is implied?
c The Chinese government is drafting a law that requires government-run cafeterias to compost
food waste.
(D In Greece, poor people will be able to get access to computers.
(D In Massachusetts, people are required to compost all their food waste without throwing it out.
c In South Korea, the more people reduce their garbage, the less money they have to pay.
(E) One of the greatest challenges today is that food is closely linked to culture and thus touches on
emotional issues that can be difficult to change. "Working on food waste is very ( )," a United
Nations official said. "The idea is not to be *intrusive and tell people what to do." the official said.
"It's probably only necessary to explain to them that they are wasting more food than they think."
* intrusive : unwanted
Choose the number of the word that best fills in the blank.
R sensitive (D economical (D international c aggressive
mm • mm • mum • • iim • mm&m

60 55-
8S-BW
p.14

People visit other countries for many reasons. Some travel on business, while others travel to take
a break from life's routines and stress. Others travel to visit famous places. Still others go abroad to
deepen their understanding of another culture. But regardless of ,,,the purpose of your trip, there are
eÅ‚Å} 2017 Å}a*^AHF=1i!IE8f c

38
certain things you should always do when you travel abroad.
Being properly prepared should be your first step. Make sure ^you have the right paperwork. Having
the wrong visa or a passport that is about to expire can cause real problems. Also, make sure you have
good medical insurance, so that if you are sick or injured during your travels you will be able to get
treatment. If you take medication with you, keep it in its original container. If you travel with
prescription drugs, bring a letter from your doctor. If you don't, you might have problems with customs
officials at your destination. Finally, if you want to rent a car, make sure you have an international
driver's license and understand the local traffic laws.
The second thing you should do is to consider steps for your safety. While most people that you meet
are sure to be friendly, there are dangers Å\ theft being the most (3)common. Just as in your home
country, do not expect everyone you meet to be honest. Always keep your valuables out of sight, or in
the hotel safe. Another safety tip when abroad is to do daily errands or go sightseeing with at least one
other person. Two people are much safer than ( 4 ). If there is no one to go sightseeing with, at least
tell someone (hotel staff or other travelers) where you are going that day, and when you expect to return.
When you get to your destination, use only officially-approved buses and taxis. Never accept rides,
from strangers who offer you a lift. If there is no meter in the taxi, agree on a ( 5 ) before you get in.
And always be aware of where the bus or taxi is going. Visitors often make mistakes when using public
transportation in a foreign country. These mistakes can lead to big problems if you do not realize them
soon enough.
Finally, be ready to communicate with local people. Learn some basic words in the local language, and
learn how to say common expressions and ask basic questions. Most importantly, remember to smile! It
is ,cthe friendliest form of communication and is understood in every part of the world!
Following these basic steps will not guarantee a perfect trip. But it will greatly reduce the chances of
problems, and allow you to enjoy your travels Å\ wherever you go, and for whatever reason. Bon voyage!
Ml
c
R
ra2
c
R
W3
c
Pol 4
c
@
ra 5
c
Ffl6
c
taking a break (D sightseeing
learning about other cultures R shopping
Tltg|$(2)cDf*l$Åí LTfttSR^fcco^c~@(?)cl3^f,-oS^o
you keep clearly corrected sheets of paper
you have the necessary documents ready
c you have good writing materials
(4) you keep an expired passport for problems
TÅítg|5(3)Å·7tSfc|*l$fc oM^o
casual (2) frequent (3) particular
Åí$r( 4 ) LT^^iS-W^tw4-R~@<D4'54^ lof^
@ simple
those going around in a group
one going sightseeing with another person
those doing daily errands
one going around alone
r( 5 ) oIKo
company
(2) date
(D law

to smile
to ask basic questions
@ price
to learn basic words
to learn common expressions
mi TÅ‚(7)CDrtÅòt o'M^o
c understanding another culture deeply (D being properly prepared for your trip
R considering steps for your safety @ being ready to communicate with local people
Pal 8 OK
c The Best Reasons for Overseas Holidays (2) A Holiday Trip
(D The Purpose of a Journey R Tips for Traveling Abroad
fni9 tzfzt,
c Almost all travelers go abroad to visit places of historical interest.
(2) You might have problems with prescribed medicine at customs unless you have a letter from your
doctor.
(3) You must keep your valuables safely in your hotel room.
c You must tell someone when you will return if you go sightseeing with other travelers.
c Wherever you go, you should learn some basic local words.
c You should accept rides from local people if they smile.
R If you want to enjoy your trip, you need to be prepared.

E9 Stephen Hawking, one of the world's most important scientists, believes that to survive, humans
must move into space: "Once we spread out into space and establish independent colonies, our future
should be safe," he says.
Today, the European Union, India, China, Russia, and Japan are all planning to send astronauts back
R eXtt2017ÅíH*^AKPpiffiIE8l
-39-

to Earth's closest neighbor: the moon. I 12 I there between 2020 and 2030. These stations will
prepare humans to visit and later live on Mars or other Earth-like planets.
Robert Zubrin, a rocket scientist, also thinks humans should colonize space. He wants to start with
Mars. Why? He thinks sending people to Mars will allow us to learn a lot Å\ for example, I 13 I in
a very different environment. Then we can eventually create new human societies on other planets. In
addition, any advances we make in the fields of science, technology, medicine, and health will also
benefit us here on Earth.
SpaceX is a company that builds rockets. Its owner, Elon Musk, also believes we should colonize Mars,
but he doesn't want just one small colony. He doesn't want to send just "one little mission;" I 14 I .
Not everyone thinks sending humans into space is a smart idea. Many say it's too expensive, even if
it's just a short journey. And most space trips are not short. A one-way trip to Mars, for example,
would take about six months. People traveling this kind of distance face many health problems. Also,
these first people would find life extremely difficult out in space. On the moon's surface, for example,
the sun's rays are very dangerous. I 15. 1 most of the time.
Despite these concerns, sending people into space seems certain. In the future, we might see lunar
cities or even new human cultures on other planets. First stop: the moon.
HI TittM ri2~l~n5~] + tztzh,

c
R
@
W2
1
2
3

c
(I
R
c
<D
c
c
M 3
c
R
IW4
c
c
R
0
(D
c

3
i.
c
people would have to stay indoors
about the ability of humans to live
some of these countries want to create space stations
he would like to send millions of people

According to Stephen Hawking, what should we do to make our existence safe in the future?
We should establish independent colonies out in the cosmos.
We should make many lunar cities as soon as possible.
We should start by sending people beyond our solar system.
We should create as many colonies as we like on Mars.
Which of the following would be most likely to happen?
We would return to the moon.
We would make space stations on Mars to prepare for exploration beyond.
We would live on another planet outside the cosmos.
We would make a short journey to Earth.
What do many people say about visiting another planet?
Sending humans into space is very clever.
It is cheap if it's just a short journey.
They could find many strange creatures on other planets.
It is too costly.
The Excellence of SpaceX c The Scientific Advances We Have Made
Living in Space @ A One-Way Trip to Mars
tztzL,
Japan and the United States will create space stations to send astronauts to the moon.
We might see humans living in cities on the moon in the future.
Robert Zubrin wants to move to Mars himself to colonize the universe.
Elon Musk owns a gigantic rocket called SpaceX.
Space exploration has become easy owing to great developments in science.
The first people on Mars would not find life easy at all.
The rays from the sun are not safe on the surface of the moon.
I am (
) the last word of his speech.
afraid I not caught
feared I didn't catch
(2) afraid I didn't catch
@ not fear I caught
2. I had ( ) abandon my first scuba diving attempt in Australia.
R no choice but to c not choice but (D no choose but to @ not choose but
3. He would ( ) deceive me into doing such a foolish thing.
c the least person c be the last person c the least person to @ be the last person to
4. Her new dress ( ) becoming on her when she attended the party last night.
c looked far of (D looked free of (3) looked free from @ looked far from
exa 2017 ^H*^ahpp1SIEÅ‚ c
aÅ_H*BE* -40- 
ffl2 JSTFW^Kti. -tti-etimi) TStSK(iM5)^e>Å\3K
1. He is (1,so an industrious person that everyonebelieves that he will make the most ofhimself
in hisacademic field.
2. I came Mlacross a woman whose face was -.^familiar to me, but I could not ...have been remembering
her name until I ,^got home.
3. Many citizens mpresent at the meeting feel that they don't ought to take part (3)in the war,
though it is a ,c,just one.
4. Not ma book ,,,! did take off the shelf though I stayed (4)in the library ,-.all day.
czin-OE

1. Catherine: I really need a vacation.
Jonathan:  I 31 I 
Catherine: I 32 I
Jonathan: Well, you have a credit card, don't you?
Catherine:
Jonathan:
Catherine:
33
34
35
c
R
(I
R
c
I understand that, but in my case I'd go crazy if I didn't get away.
So where are you planning to go?
So do I. Do you have any plans during the summer?
Of course, but I don't want to go into debt.
I can't go anywhere, because my budget is too tight.
Jacquie: Do you keep any pets?
Rupert:  I 36
Jacquie: I 37
Rupert: I live in a small apartment.
Jacquie:   38 1 
Rupert:  I 39 I 
Jacquie:  I 40 I 
R I guess I'd get a dog.
(D I wish I could.
(D You should visit my house then. You can play with my two poodles.
(4) What's the problem?
c If you had more room, what would you do?
5
(rn~~l) ~ (I 5 I) i;: A& it ^ mute *> <r> tztz I, bvv&o-ci>


Throughout the long history of education, the ( ) (
knowledge and skills.
) ( ) ( ) (n~i) ( ) of
c been (D has R emphasis @ on c the c transmission
2. & z t
( ) ( ) ( ) (I 2 1) ( ) ( ) dioxide is the main cause of global warming.
c carbon c consensus c is @ it c our c that
3.
He ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) (I 3 1) of the aid money.
c admitted c for c handling
@ improper c responsibility c the
4. ztDmui,
The event ( ) ( ) (I 4 [) ( ) ( ) ( ) our society to address environmental issues.
c attention c calls c for @ need c to c the
5. ftjtttrtfi SJuH-v*.
The sense ( ) ( ) ( ) (I 5 I) ( ) ( ).
c is c of c manipulation
c sight c susceptible c to
• SBCti 2017 ÅíHÅ}Å_AHHBIE!g
41
M • Hia • • ?Åí -fl-llli • • 1M 2 H1 s mm


&
(3) when
(|ia 1, M 2) <DÅíffi [11] ~ [15] Åí3*6 h <0 (eft & MM % t> <T> i(D~W<D?>-oIWÅòv>0

p.15
(4) take part in
(4) singing
(4) until
(4) unless
(4) One
(4) dispute
(4) very
(4) interrupt
(4) and

(4) within
been to that Indian restaurant in Umeda?
Sachiko: Oh, yes. I've been there several times.
Susan: It's good, isn't it?
Sachiko: It sure is. I love their curry; it's so spicy and healthy.
Susan: [12] We just have to go there together sometime soon.
[11] (1) Yes, I have. (2) No, I haven't. (3) Which one? (4) Where is that?
[12] (1) So do I. (2) I do so, too. (3) Not for me. (4) Same to you.
["] 2 Clerk: Good afternoon. May I help you?
Jack: Yes, please. I'd like to make a reservation to go to Manila.
Clerk: [13]
Jack: At the end of next week.
Clerk: [Looking at the computer] [14]
Jack: Next Friday? Is that the 12th?
Clerk: No; it's the 13th, Friday the 13th.
Jack: Oh, no! Not that day!
Clerk: [Laughing] [15] You believe it's an unlucky day?
[13] (1) How long will you be gone?
(2) Why do you need to go to Manila?
(3) Where are you staying in Manila?
(4) When would you like to leave?
[14] (l) I have something available next Friday.
(2) I'm afraid next week's flights are already fully booked.
(3) There's no flight on Fridays.
(4) We're closed on Fridays.
[15] (1) What for? (2) Why not? (3) Sounds good. (4) Well, just in case.
boarding pass Z. t K/n$k~$~ &ffi|?ÅíiSL;fcj%:jE:Åí:(l)~(0)<Åí>41foi:bEl'^>jiOi':Åí
?v>o tztz L, iScllWllMfcftv^.
EEJttt 2017 ÅíBÅ}^AKfn)IiuES •
Susan:
Sachiko
Susan:
Have you
[11]
You know. That vegetarian restaurant.
(3) give way to
ir among young
(3) to sing
(2) get rid of
) the coming speech contest.
contribute
Akiko is going to (
catch up with
just (2) so
In this class the students are expected to (
(3) too
) actively to discussions.
(3) greet
The museum is a little ( ) far to walk from here; take a bus.
discovery
(2) distance
e ( ) far'
(2) so
:nts are expe
(2) decide
You should consult a lawyer to settle the (
Almost
Most

division
) of my friends is visiting Alaska next month.
after
(
(1
Fci| 4
(l
ws
(i
HI 6
(l
M7
(1
W3 8
(l
H9
among
Look carefully (
fill 2 If you want to lose weight, you'd better not eat ( ) meals.
(3) from
it ( ) me
(3) in
(3) though
(2) to
'eight, you'd better n<
(2) between
) you cross the street.
(2) before
is visiting Alaska nex
(2) Every
(l) yet
1
W 1 ~|tl310)cO^?B>rÅíSÅ°o)iOf^$v>
RH 1 TVip Havs are pp.ttine loneer ( ) longer.
L
60 ft
The song ( ) by the DTB 49 is very popular among young people.
(l) sang
10 The
(1) that
(2) sung
) I wa
(2) which
PfllO The telephone rang ( ) I was about to go out.
2

42

Kucing Airways Business Class
Business Class

Name TAN WEI CHENG MS Flight KQ618 24MAR16
Boarding Time 01:00AM

YOU ARE INVITED TO THE BUSINESS CLASS LOUNGE
Seat Gate Teiminal
14 A A4 3
PLS BOARD EARLY GATE CLOSES 10MINS BEFORE DEP
Name TAN WEI CHENG MS
Flight KQ618 24MAR16
From SIN SINGAPORE
To KIX OSAKA
Seat Gate Terminal
14 A A4 3
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(0)
The passenger is female.
This is a boarding pass for March 16.
KQ 618 is a night flight.
The time of departure is not stated.
The passenger won't be able to use the business class lounge.
The passenger will be on board at 0:50.
DEP means department.
The destination is Singapore.
The passenger can sit in A4.
Most likely there are at least three terminals in the airport where the flight takes place.
Oik<nM$:*mA,-e, KWKgx.&sn.
H] Perhaps no single monument in the USA is as famous as the Statue of Liberty. Standing on a
small island in New York Harbor, the crowned lady, holding aloft in her right hand the torch of freedom
and in her left hand a tablet inscribed "July 4th, 1776," is a symbol of American democracy. She is
colossal. She is 151 ft. high and the pedestal on which she stands is almost as tall. An elevator takes
visitors to the top of the pedestal, around which a balcony runs. A spiral staircase goes up to the crown,
and another to the torch. The Statue of Liberty was a gift to the USA from France in 1886, as a mark
of friendship and also in memory of the aid France gave the Americans during the American Revolution.
[2] For millions of immigrants*, the Statue was their first sight of the ^promised land, and for a few it
was also the last, as they sailed back home again to a future without hope. About a mile from Liberty
Island, there is another small island, called Ellis Island, which was looked upon with great fear by
immigrants. For it was here that they had to wait their turn to be examined by doctors and officials.
Most of the immigrants could not speak a word of English. But only two out of 100 immigrants were
refused admission to New York City. Often the person refused turned out to be a grandmother or a
weary, frightened girl mistakenly labeled "feeble-minded*." Sometimes husbands and wives were
parted because one of them happened to have a bad cough and was suspected of having tuberculosis*.
02 New York City was a bitter disappointment to some immigrants. Far from being a city paved* with
gold, it was a city with overcrowded, unhealthy, and unsafe ghettos*. The immigrants looked for
earlier immigrants of their own nationality or religion. So Italian, Polish, Irish, Jewish neighborhoods
grew up. Because they could not speak English, the newcomers found it difficult to get work at once,
and their living quarters* were often slums.
|4] However, they found in the USA opportunities of bettering themselves and of escaping from the
cruel rule which many of them had suffered in their own countries. ,mTo that extent, the Statue of
them an honest welcome.
E Today's immigrants no longer have to endure ;r,the indignities of Ellis Island. The grim buildings
were closed down in 1924. In 1976, Ellis Island became a historic monument.
immigrant "feeble-minded" I"ÅínKjPS:4sn<Åí>#>Å°?> J tuberculosis InR
paved ghetto living quarters frttE
[20] ~ [25] Z&tdZ (DhzM & ill fc CO Å·r(l)~(3)W Åí v>0
( [20] )*>Åí#Å·
A. ( [21] ) :
B. fl.S|
c eXtt2017^H*^AKMSjE)B
43

1. W-M
2. : tv>io
3. Åí#:( [22] )
4. 7f)iJ<D( [23] )Åí>&Å‚
C.
1. : 1517-f-h
2. $ fc lÅãI8K
D. #&
1, /i)]/U Å\ Å\
2.
E. ( [24] ) : 79 > XfrbOlfe*) %
[20]
[21]
[22]
1. ( [25] )c0J
2. 7 v
(1) Å_fn
(D tm
(D mm
[23] (1)
[24] (1) nm
[25] (1)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)
(2)



US
Åí1*
(3)
(3)
(3)
(3)
(3)
(3)
gfi
iM
BBS

ftR
JBvtB
M2 Tiftg|S(A)<7) "promised land" **>Å‚S&&gdÅí(1)~(4)
(Dtpfrh Å\Åí >^Åã
(1) future without hope
(2) city paved with gold
(3) city with overcrowded, unhealthy, and unsafe ghettos
(4) historic monument
HH 3 T$&nl$(B)<7) "To that extent, the Statue of Liberty did give them an honest welcome" [-?Å°<Åí> Bt") "C
(i, coÅ·:(i)~(4)<o41^^>
Å\ojg<7ÅíÅív>0
(1) All immigrants were able to improve their lives without exceptions.
(2) Immigrants were at least given a chance to lead happier lives than in their home countries.
(3) All immigrants were at least able to see the Statue of Liberty.
(4) Immigrants were all allowed into the United States anyway.
M4 TISgKCJW "the indignities of Ellis Island" [x'J h i W=&(l)~(4)0"t'

(D
(2)
(3)
(4) AHnrswagu^^^^ii;
(1) Those who were thought to have tuberculosis were refused entry.
(2) Most immigrants were sent back to their own countries.
(3) Immigrants were able to find employment easily.
(4) New York had no slums.
a &cDB*Åí(F.g 1. W 2)tf)ttygKftfcjav>jÅíl$fcKÅí<51 0 K(l)~(5)Å·iÅò •
19 t, [30] ~ [33] coffin < Z>i><DÅ_Å}Å_tlj)Å_ tztzL, jCMfc < b i>
tfLTÅí><31to
Pp1! 1 H*t?. Å·iftJIUÅ}^cJI| Å} <0 fejtvv,
The Shinano is ( ) ( [30] ) ( ) ( [31] ) ( ) in Japan.
(1) any (2) longer (3) other (4) river (5) than
Pol 2 'i&tft'o
( ) ( ) ( [32] ) ( [33] ) ( ) the problem.
(1) he (2) solved (3) how (4) we (5) don't know
ffiÅítt2017ÅíH*^AKFp^ffiIER @
*R8*
44
mm • mm • watts • i * * H**
r
<D 4
c
2 ST" 100 53-
p.15
L
( ) 3l=It< iSl;: < ÅífS&
/KSt^KLT&a o
Please (c you c know c let us @ when) are leaving.
(c with c familiar c are you @ the novels) written by Soseki Natsume?
It is (c a constant c important c temperature @ to maintain) inside the laboratory.
I can't (c have c remember R I @ what) done with my glasses.
Is there a shop near here (c buy c can c I @ where) flowers?
Whatever they said, (c his mind c Ken c change @ would not).
(cif @ see your c the symptoms @ doctor) persist.
She is not (c pianist c the brilliant c she c that) used to be.
(c World War II ended chad cearlier @ six months), how many lives would have been saved!
I'll (cI c the window c replace @ broke) as soon as possible.

I 11 I Her idea is not ( ) with the &
c constitute
12 I The boy
c under
ot ( ) with the existing studies.
(D correspond c consistent
I 12 I The boy was forced to enter the school (
c as
nn No (
c wonder
(D against
panese sent*
(D in
says, the pr
(2) wander
) his will.
c in
r ( ) tl
c to
I 13 I The structure of Japanese sentences is similar ( ) that of Korean.
@ cooperate
@ for
@ about
priate commei
@ matter
@ cleaned
@ more
@ solve
@ well
@ to buy
@ used
) what he says, the prime minister cannot justify his inappropriate comments.
A ( ) iZT-WJCimzXtlX. R~c<D7t>i
c 7-4-<y c r-^-A
<D
c r-^-A
c t>-r-4
c 7-4-V
@ A -t>-7
20 I A lot of cold water ( ) to cool down a drying machine.
c are used (D is used c uses
(D buying
c good
I 19 I I cannot help (
c buy
I 18 I I have been to the United States as (
(D solved
) as the United Kingdom.
c far
17 I The financial problem is difficult for the country ( ).
(D least
em is difficult for
(D solving
United States as
(D long
) a new iPad.
(2) from buying
I 16 I At ( ) fifteen participants are required for the group tour.
<D clean
c cleaning
I6~l At (
c less
17 1 The fix
c to solve
I 15 I My clothes need ( ).
c mutter

c to clean
r the group
(D many
I 21 I A: What's the matter, Melissa?
B: I left my credit card at home. ( )
A: Sorry, but I'd rather not.
B: ( ) I promise! I really want to buy this bag today.
A: If you want to keep a friend, never borrow, never lend.
B: What's that?
A: That is a proverb. Money often destroys friendships.
B: ( )
A: That's okay. I'm glad you value our friendship.
7. I'll pay you back next time I see you.
Å°i. I see... I'm sorry I asked for such a favor.
Å°?. Could you lend me Å_10,000?
I 22 I A: Why are you walking so fast?
B: ( ) Can you tell me where Room G41 is?
A: ( ) There, you can ask that man at the gate.
• HÅítt2017ÅíBÅ}^AMaffiIDg
-45-

B: Right, good idea. Thank you!
A: ( )
B: Wish me luck!
7. I hope you can make it.
-f. I'm getting late for a meeting.
Sorry, but I'm new here myself.
I 23 I A: Who wrote this report?
B: ( ) Is there a problem?
A: My boss asked me to check if it looked okay, but there were so many spelling mistakes.
When is the deadline?
B: ( )
A: Okay then. I was going to correct them, but I'll tell him to do it.
B: ( ) He should correct them by himself.
A: I know!
7. Mark did.
Å°i. You're right.
Å°>. It's the day after tomorrow.
B tztzL,
A: Hi. rWl
B: Sure. Do you have specific dates?
A: I 25 I Maybe in late August.
B: OK. Could you tell me the departing and arriving airports?
A: I 26 I
B: Uh... Will you be traveling alone or is there someone accompanying you?
A: I 27 I I'll probably know by next week.
B: Listen, it seems that you should think more about your plan before calling.
A: Why is that?
B: I 28 I You cannot book a flight without dates, places, and the number of people!
c No, not really.
(D Not unless you do.
c I asked my friend to come with me, but she's not sure yet.
@ Are you serious?
(D I'd like to make a flight reservation.
c I prefer spacious hotel rooms.
R I'd love to visit Europe, but I haven't decided which city to visit yet.
R I worked at a company in the U.S., but not in Europe.

A Welcome to Auckland. New Zealand Maori called this land Tamaki Makaurau, a maiden
desired by a hundred lovers. It was a place fought over for its vast riches, I 29 I its forested hills,
productive volcanic soils and harbours full of seafood. Today, the city's sparkling waters, varied
landscapes and vibrant urban lifestyle combine to make it one of the most desirable places in the
world I 30 I live or visit. In fact, Auckland is I 31 I the third most liveable city in the world on the
Mercer Quality of Living scale. The accolades don't stop there. Lonely Planet named Auckland
I 32 I one of the world's Top 10 Cities for 2014 in its 'Best in Travel' guide and Waiheke Island was
ranked in the top 10 islands in the South I 33 I in the 2013 TripAdvisor Travelers Choice Destination
awards. Now it's time to get out and experience Auckland for yourself Å\ there's so much waiting for
you to discover.
[tlill: Aucklandnz.com. (2015). Free Official Guide 2015 Auckland A-Z.]
29
"30"
~3T
32
"33"
R
R
include
for
rate
as
Traffic
c
@
includes
from
rates
for
Pacific
included
to
rated
by
Specific
0
R


R
including
with
rating
to
Terrific
B
With the growth of the Internet, tourism, and the global economy, it feels like the world is getting
smaller. Ideas, products, and customs are flying from country to country in the blink of an eye. As
these cultural exports grow, the world is slowly but I 34 I becoming a global village.
Entertainment is one of the most popular cultural exports. Every year, movies from Hollywood are
watched by billions of people worldwide. I 35 I. TV shows and music are making their way from
America to Asia. As people enjoy these entertainment products, they also learn about the ideas and
values of other cultures.

*RÅ·*
46
Fashion is another big cultural export. In the past, it took months for trends to I 36 I to other
countries. Now, with the Internet, a new style from Paris can become famous overnight. Plus, today's
super-fast shipping means that a shop in South Africa can receive European goods in I 37 I.
Some people are unhappy about the rapid spread of foreign cultures. They worry it will harm their
local 1 38 I. For sure, young people are often interested in new ideas and products from abroad. Yet
the more we learn about each other, the closer we become. That helps export our most important
cultural products: greater understanding and world peace.
[iTjft : Andrew E. Bennett, Reading Pass 2, 2015^, Å\ SISScSE]
c surely c slowly c rarely R immediately
c Say c Otherwise c Similar @ Likewise
c load c take (D spread @ bring
c a time c no time c one time @ few time
c identity c climate c crime @ time
34
35
36
37
38
Å°a 303
SSJ In 2010, Uniqlo formed a joint venture with Grameen Healthcare Trust in Bangladesh. The
purpose of Grameen Uniqlo is to sell clothes made by locals, for locals, at affordable prices for people
living near the poverty line, and to nurture local retailing expertise. But as the local retail staff diligently
counted their door-to-door sales of T-shirts, priced at $1 or $2, from village to village, the company that
owns Uniqlo, Fast Retailing Co., realized it had come accross a wealth of untapped data on a rapidly
growing economy.
"We learned which communities wanted bright reds and greens, which preferred muted tones," Fast
Retailing Senior Vice President Yukihiro Nitta said in an interview. "We learned to stock more men's
wear, because women who wear saris buy mostly leggings and home wear."
When the venture opened its first stores in Dhaka in July, Mr. Nitta discovered that in a shop full of $2
and $3 items, shoppers will spend $10 for a pair of jeans or $9 for a shirt with a collar that can be used
on more formal occasions. The stores now stock 70% to 75% of a store's floor space with items for men.
[tBift : A" 38, 15 Things Happening in Japan, 2015^, Å\Åò1$25:22]
c Grameen Uniqlo was built in order to export cheaper goods.
c Grameen Uniqlo just exploited local labor force.
c Grameen Uniqlo enabled locals to make and buy their clothes at appropriate prices.
@ Female shoppers were more active than male shoppers in Dhaka.
c Shoppers in Dhaka spent $10 on average.
c Fast Retailing learned the tastes of color in different communities.
R Men in Dhaka preferred casual clothes to formal ones.
c Fast Retailing found more demand for men's clothes in Dhaka.
Å· jaTowv>KÅ‚x.j;o
KB If we truly want to achieve world peace, we have to get rid of weapons of war. And the world is
full of weapons Å\ guns, rockets, tanks, landmines. What are landmines? Landmines are special bombs
which are buried in the ground. They're designed to explode when a person steps on them. Landmines
are one of the cruelest weapons of war. Why? Because they don't discriminate between soldiers and
civilians. Their casualties include men and women, adults and children, young and old. Even after wars
end, mthey can remain for days, months and years waiting for innocent victims.
Do you know any landmine victims? I do. My brother-in-law is a landmine survivor. He's an
American journalist. Back in the 1960s, he was sent to Asia to report on the Vietnam War. One day, he
was walking with a group of American soldiers through the jungle. The soldiers were carrying rifles. He
was carrying his camera and notebook. As he was walking, he suddenly stepped on a landmine buried
in the ground. Instantly, the landmine exploded, sending pieces of metal up into his body. Normally, he
would have died instantly. But, somehow he survived the explosion. The soldiers quickly called for an
army helicopter. The helicopter took him to a nearby military hospital. After an emergency
^operation, he was taken to Saigon for further medical care. Eventually, he was flown back to New
York where he spent one year in hospital. Thanks to his doctors, he slowly recovered. But even now, 50
years later, he still suffers terrible pain from his injuries. To manage this pain, he swims an hour each
day in a swimming pool. He's lucky to be alive!
Hundreds of people around the world have worked to eliminate landmines. Famous celebrities
connected to ,,,this movement include Princess Diana of England and pop singer Paul McCartney.
[ttPA : The Japan Times ST, 2015,
TMUBmthey
casualties R soldiers R landmines
fn!2 TUnlwoperation toSrlHo
R The store received the operation permit from the city.

@ eÅítt2017ÅíB*^AKFpmER
@ civilians
-47-
• HiU9*
@
R
0
Pn13
c
R
M4
c
c

c
c
The UN rescue operation started shortly after the earthquake.
My father is going to need an operation on his shoulder.
The helicopter's engine operation was normal.
THol^this movement <Åí>FH&b
to remove landmines
to achieve world peace
t Å\Scf h co Åí 2 ojg^o
(D to support landmine victims
@ to report landmine disaster
The author is a landmine survivor in the Vietnam War.
Paul McCartney is a singer who has contributed to the efforts for the removal of landmines.
The author's brother-in-law was a soldier during the Vietnam War.
When a person approaches the landmines buried in the ground, they will explode instantly.
The author's brother-in-law was dead after an emergency operation in Saigon.
The landmine survivor still needs to manage the pain.
HH wmamg ////
s • i • sssiiai • Å}wm
60
p.15
L
tb-, Mv>Cfx.Å},
Hot Defensive Bee Ball
In nature, animals threatened by enemies display various kinds of adaptive behaviors to escape or
actively defend themselves against the enemies. Honeybees commonly use their stingers* to
counterattack an intruder. Japanese honeybees, ((D), fight against the giant hornet,* their most
horrible natural enemy, by displaying a characteristic behavior called "hot defensive bee ball
5 formation."* In fall, giant hornets attack Japanese honeybee colonies. If a hornet tries to enter the
beehive, a group of more than 500 worker bees quickly swarm around the hornet, trapping it inside
the bee ball. In the ball formation, honeybees vibrate their flight muscles to produce heat. The
temperature in the ball quickly rises to almost 47Åã C, which is deadly to the hornet. The high
temperature phase continues for approximately 20 minutes. Within 30 to 60 minutes after the
10 formation of the bee ball, the hornet is killed by the heat produced.
( (D ), European honeybees, which are a related species and were introduced to Japan in the Meiji
era (about 140 years ago), exhibit only stinging behavior against hornets. The outer skin of the
giant hornet, however, is too thick for a bee to sting, and colonies of European honeybees are often
completely destroyed. While this discovery may seem to demonstrate that the Japanese honeybee is
15 "smarter" than its European counterpart, this is not the case. There are no giant hornets in Europe.
They inhabit Asia, including Japan. So, it's merely an evolutionary consequence of adaptation to the
threat of natural enemies.
( (D ) this "hot defensive bee ball" behavior has been known for some time, the mechanism
behind it has been hidden in a veil of mystery. But researchers at Japan's University of Tokyo,
20 through study of the bees' brains, have detected a previously undiscovered kind of neural* activity
that takes place when the bees engage in "hot defensive bee balling." The researchers were
astonished by the fact that the collective heat generated by the group, while fatal for the hornet,
leaves the bees unaffected. Even more surprisingly, they used perfectly coordinated teamwork
during the process. When an outsider enters, the honeybees are immediately on their guard. Then
25 all at once, they gather to attack. So, it's not that one commands all the rest. They are acting
collectively in an emergency. Curious about why the bees attack this way, the researchers examined
their brains and found that neural activity in bees involved with the "hot defensive bee ball"
increased. It's a kind of neural activity that isn't seen in European honeybees, taking place in the
higher brain center.*
*stinger (2frS) : (j#<7))$t *horaet (3ffS) :
*hot defensive bee ball formation (4 ff B) ' 'neural (20tT i) :
*higher brain center(29tTÅò) : itiiWiB't'flZ
(D KOUT, $ioft#c^oTvinifT, F ifE-f-egxio
(a) Å‚igm
1. Japanese honeybees exhibit a unique defensive behavior.
e$tt2017ÅíB*^AttlSEE8? •

-48-
2. The temperature in the bee ball rises simply because the bees gather together,
(b) #2 gift
1. European honeybees in Japan try stinging the hornet in vain.
2. European honeybees in Japan adapted to changes of environment.
(c) %3&m
1. The heat created by the bees is also deadly to themselves.
2. There must be one bee that is in charge of attacking the hornet.
(2) k<Dt LT, ft kit-R&&<Åí>Åí 1 oSQf, Å}0
(a) <it> (6frl)
1. a characteristic behavior
3. a group of more than 500 worker bees
(b) <they> (23ffl!)
1. the bees' brains
3. the bees
i (D )~( (D ) i><ot LT,
( R ) 1. moreover
3. for example
((D) 1. In conclusion
3. As a result
((D) 1. While 2. Since
2
4
the beehive
the hornet
the hornets
the researchers
(3) ( R )~( c ) (CAS i><Dt LT,
( R ) 1. moreover
3. for example
((D) 1. In conclusion
3. As a result
((D) 1. While 2. Since
2. however
4. in the same way
2. On the other hand
4. All things considered
3. If 4. Because
(4) LT, fffÅòx.J:,
(a) <demonstrate> (14It @)
1. say something in order to obtain an answer
2. tell people something officially
3. take part in a public meeting
4. show something clearly by giving proof or evidence
(b) <consequence> (16It @)
1. a result of something that has happened
2. a goal or desired result
3. a process through which something becomes different
4. continuous processes of change
(c) <collectively> (26f? @)
1. one by one 2. at full speed 3. as a group 4. in a hurry
n setter. fcrtfU
E9

(what / confronted / form / their natural enemy, / scientists call / when / with / Japanese honeybees
will) a "hot defensive bee ball."

It could (the honeybees / to / be / when / tells / timer / that / a sort of) stop a bee-ball attack.
n
K1 (l) ) fcfcTtti&fc&aittfclK&fu)* l~4A^-oM,
(a) The ambulance was approaching the children with its lights ( ).
1. flashes 2. flash 3. flashing 4. to flash
(b) Stealing is the ( ) thing I want to do in my life.
1. least 2. last 3. fewest 4. little
(c) If the average temperature were to rise by 3Åã C, what ( ) to the earth?
1. would happen 2. would have happened
3. had to happen 4. should have happened
(d) My boss is thinking of having us ( ) harder.
1. work 2. to work 3. to be working 4. in working
(2) -RfTIE1-Å°?>ÅíÅí(::J:o-c, CSWwlEU^.!:fTIE-t


You can be too careful when driving with your baby in a car.
12 3 4
(b) mi, ms&fr<VtzibÅ_zm^z/r~*<V3fr<D2Z,
He had already eaten two-thirds of the cake that I baked for myself.
12 3 4
(c) mm,
• 2017 AIDSES?
-49
ROUS* •*Å‚Å‚*(Åí)
In fact, Mr. Miura is the second good player after Mr. Kato in this team.
1 2 3 4
(d) Si,
We were asked painting the wall white instead of yellow.
12 3 4

x. i0
Hello. May I speak to Mr. Hiller, please?
( )
I see. I'll call him again another day.
Yes, you could if you like. 2.
I'm sorry, but he is still on vacation. 4.
Do you have any plans this weekend?
( )
: Well, I wanted to talk about the coming festival, but let's do it some other day.
(1) A:
B:
A:
1.
3.
(2) A:
B:
A
1.
3.
(3) A:
B:
A
1.
3.
(4) A:
B:
A:
1.
3.
(5) A:
B:
A:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Yes, I can talk to Mr. Hiller.
I'm sorry, but he is no longer with us.
No, I'm going to go hiking. 2.
Yes, I have no special plans. 4.
: What's for dinner, Mom?
I haven't decided yet. How about eating out?
: ( )
OK. I'll get a shopping bag. 2.
OK. I'll bring the food out there. 4.
You look nice today, Lucy.
Thanks. I got my hair dyed brown yesterday.
( )
It doesn't matter. 2.
It's my pleasure to dye your hair. 4.
Yes, I went to the zoo with my friends.
Yes, I'm going skiing with my family.



OK. I'd like to eat in our garden.
OK. I'd like to have Mexican food.



Take it easy.
Oh. That's why.
Professor Takagi recommended that I do an internship at that company during the summer vacation.
: That's a good idea! Are you going to do it?
: ( )
Yes, I'd like to take a vacation.
Sure. I do mind working as an intern.
Yes, of course. But I have to apply for it first.
No, but I have to apply for it first.
2J?9 BUM
90 3-
JMF-aHB
p.15
TcDMWc^;L&$vÅ_> (42jÅí)
When people talk about university today you often hear the phrase "return on investment." In
other words, how much money you will get out of doing it, mrelative to the amount that you have put in.
What no one seems to ask is what the "return" that university is supposed to give you is. Is it just about
earning more money? Is the only purpose of an education to enable you to get a job? What, we need to
ask ourselves, is university for?
There has been ,,a lot of debate recently in the United States about higher education, especially about
increasing school fees, rising student debt, and the tough labor market for new graduates. We talk about
the future of the university: budget cuts, distance learning, online courses, and whether the university in
its present form is even necessary. We talk about national competitiveness, the twenty-first-century
labor force, technology and engineering, and the prospects for our future prosperity. But we never talk
about the principles that underlie this conversation, as if what makes for a happy life or a good society
were perfectly obvious, and as if n)in either case the one and only answer were more money.
Of course money matters: jobs matter, financial security matters, national prosperity matters. The
question is, are they the only things that matter? Life is more than a job; a job is more than a salary; and
a nation is more than its ( X ). Education is more than the obtaining of marketable* skills, and you are
PEZtt 2017 ÅíD*^AHFp1HIER •
S*R*(X)
-50-
more than your ability to contribute to your employer's profitability or the nation's GDP*, no matter
what politicians and business executives would like you to think. To ask what university is for is to ask
what life is for, what society is for: ( Y ), what people are for.
Do students ever hear this? What they hear is a constant drumbeat that seeks to march them in the
opposite direction. When policy makers talk about higher education, from the president all the way
down, they talk exclusively in terms of math and science. Journalists and commentators Å\ some of
whom majored in humanities* and none of whom are nurses or engineers Å\ never tire of lecturing the
young about the foolishness of wanting to learn things just because you're curious about them. "Top Ten
Majors" means the most employable, not the most interesting. "Top Ten Fields of Study" means above-
average income, not job satisfaction. "What are you going to do with (4)that?" someone will inevitably
ask when they hear that a young person is thinking of applying to study for a humanities degree.
I'm not sure what the "practical" people are so concerned about. MAfter all, not many of our students
are demanding to get into classes on Shakespeare and Socrates. English literature is now, alas, the
choice of only 3 percent of students. Business, at 21 percent, accounts for more than one and a half
times as many undergraduates as all of the arts and humanities combined. In 1972, 73 percent of
freshmen at American universities said that it was essential or very important to "develop a meaningful
philosophy of life," 37 percent to be "very wealthy": ,clnot just wealthy, but very wealthy. By 2012, the
numbers were almost reversed, 47 percent and 80 percent, respectively. For years we've been loudly
announcing that happiness is money (or even better, money and fame). No wonder students have come
to believe that university is all about getting a job.
Of course you need to get a job, but you also need to get a life. What's the return on investment of
university? What's the return on investment of having children, spending time with friends, reading a
book, doing volunteer work, traveling?
that are most worth
own sake. Anyone who tells you that the only purpose
are
is the obtaining of marketable skills
is attempting to reduce you to a productive employee at work, a passive consumer in the market, and an
obedient citizen of the nation. When we ask ourselves what university is for, we must remember that the
question is really about our ability to remain fully human.
Notes: marketable ; TU^rttOlSv'1 GDP BrtSSt/S(Gross Domestic Product)
humanities
W) in addition to
(n) in conflict with
M in connection with (-) in proportion to
B. lol^gv'o
c.
W)
(n)
H
(-)
universities are charging students more money
universities are hiring more professors
universities are reducing spending
university students are borrowing more money
TiRfflKSWJWMSKffi Lr ^& 2 m
and
D. Åí0r( X ) (cAÅíÅ·kÅ‚&SÅòÅí&WW)~(-)<D"t'^P> loI[P^Åò^o
W) education
(a) lives
H society
E.
F.
W
M
G.
H.
I
w
(a)
M
(=)
W)
(d)
M
(=)
W)
(n)
ÅíJ?r( Y
(Å\) wealth
THg|5(4)Å‚ that i><D%, <kO(-1)~(~)<Dtpfrb 1 oSCF^$v>0
an above-average income (n) going to university
a humanities degree {-) job satisfaction
"Do students" X'tist h% <Åí % <D%fc<7)W~(-)<?)<Pfrb 1 of^S v>,
Journalists and commentators stress the value of intellectual curiosity.
Policy makers have very different views on education from the president.
The "Top Ten Majors" have been ranked according to practical, not academic, reasons.
The United States is currently suffering from a shortage of nurses and engineers.

Few students are interested in taking such classes.
More students would take such classes if they had the chance.
Students should not demand to take such classes.
Such classes are too demanding for most students.
More university students should major in the fields of math and science.
Young people should try to follow the advice of journalists and commentators.
• eÅítt2017ÅíHÅ}^AKP^HIEfS
51


I/'") Studying a humanities major such as English literature is a waste of time.
(-) The number of business students today is higher than the number of humanities students.
W Money isn't the only thing that American students should be concerned with.
N Doing volunteer work or traveling will help you find a good job.
(W It is never too late to return to university, no matter how old you are.
W) business executive (n) humanities professor
H political advisor (Å\) scientific researcher
n (38,&)
WM What is language for? It fulfils two main functions: it tells us about things, and it allows us to
interact, in various ways, with other members of our species Å\ from encounters in shops and banks, to
chatting with friends, family and lovers. And in ,,.so doing, we attempt to influence the actions, thoughts
and feelings of others. Both functions allow us to communicate with one another.
( X ) of communication, language has much in common with many others that abound in nature.
The distinctive colouring of some species provides a signal that is interpreted by potential predators* as a
warning of danger. An example is the yellow and black stripes of wasps*.
Of course, we wouldn't normally consider the message signalled by body colour to be language-like.
Communication systems are usually thought to involve some level of ,,,intentionality Å\ the signaller, to
some degree, is consciously conveying a message, in a specific context, for some particular purpose.
Moreover, communication systems found in the wild can be more or less complex, more or less
individually learned, and more or less flexibly applied to a range of contexts. Some of the most
significant complexity associated with non-human communication system involves birdsong, and the
songs of whales. The greatest flexibility is associated with the naturally occurring gestures of apes, such
as chimpanzees, which also appear to be individually learned.
To gain a sense of the sorts of communication systems that abound in the wild, consider the honeybee.
Honeybees live in large colonies consisting of a queen bee, male bees and worker bees, which are the
offspring of the queen and male bees. In a famous study, Karl von Frisch, the Austrian biologist and
Nobel Prize winner, was the first to figure out the significance of the dance of the honeybees. We now
know with certainty that honeybees, as well as other species, are capable of communicating
about the location of food. Once a worker has located a source of nectar*, it returns to
can refer to
from declaring
the hive* in
to signal the location to the other bees. This is achieved via a sophisticated dance
performed on a wall inside the hive. The dance indicates the distance of the food source from the hive,
as well as its direction.
While bees communicate through dance, other species rely on voice. A striking example is the alarm
calls made by vervet monkeys*, which live in southern and eastern Africa. Vervets make specific and
distinct calls upon sight of different predators: the sound they make when they see a snake is different
from the (4)ones they make when they spot an eagle or leopard.
Clearly, while communicative systems such as K, these are interesting, they are highly restricted in
terms of their communicative value. In the case of both bees and vervet monkeys the symbolic systems
used are limited to specific contexts of use. This is not, of course, to reduce the importance of those
contexts, and the value of the communicative systems for the well-being and survival of the species. But
eternal
guage is much more flexible in the variety of situations tha
to negotiating a peace treaty to commenting on the weather.
And, it is flexible in another way too Å\ different communities of humans adopt different linguistic
varieties: Swahili, Japanese and English are all quite distinct, in a range of ways. This is because the
system itself is naturally flexible. Its flexibility arises from a process that allows us to combine otherwise
meaningless symbols. Sounds and words can be combined variously, following the 'rules' of an abstract
grammar, individually learned, that humans carry around with them in their heads. It is perhaps this
capability that [,,,(Å‚) the communication systems / (b) from / (c) human language / (d) most distinguishes]
of animals such as honeybees, whales, and vervet monkeys.
Notes: predator jSAIW wasp xX^A'f hive 5 nectar
vervetmonkey (T7 V
A.
B

W)
(n)
M
(-)
communicating with other members of our species
speaking to people in shops and banks
talking with friends, family and lovers
telling us about interesting things
ÅíJDt( X )
(4) As a means (n) As a result H On account
C. l-3l[F4$v>0
(-) On the basis
aÅí*Å} 2017 ASSIES? •

52
(4) consciously changing a message (n) sending a message purposefully
H signalling a message in a limited context (Å\) transmitting a message to some extent
D. THoB(3)ii, the location of food h -fi'I -fBJ (C o v ^ "C O information X? & &
L,
( )and ( )
F. TÅ·IS(5)^SJ&LTV^ i><Dk 1
H) the bee's dance and the vervet monkey's calls
(n) the songs of birds and whales
M the sophisticated dance of the honeybee
(Å\) the yellow and black coloured stripes of wasps
G. TiÅíg|$(6)Åí, 5-z.btitzmfylzmtr,
 
H. Tiiag|5(7)co#Ml-?lfflWW^-Cv>aaai:LT, lojSO5"
(-0 to indicate that the word is used humorously
(n) to mean that the word is used in some special sense
M to put strong emphasis upon the word
(Å\) to show that the word was used by a famous person
I. TÅ·IS(8b&*jELv>:fcKÅíÅí Å}-5 Wa)~(d)^^#x.7tt Åò, 1 ojgO*
J
m
(n)
M
(-)
(*)
As a communication system, the dance of the honeybee is as complicated as human language.
Close similarities are found between human language and the vervet monkey's alarm calls.
Essentially, human language is no different from many non-human communication systems.
Human language is more flexible than other communication systems in at least two respects.
The only purposes of both animal communication and human language are well-being and
survival.
(N The message signalled by body colour is usually considered to be a kind of language.
(H Human language is probably unique in its ability to connect sounds and words in accordance with
grammar.
1 )~(5)<r>Åíffi $ a i <D IZ ft & i> cd
Exploring is not necessarily about finding
ÅíW)~(1 oit;^ $
places that you never knew existed. Think of the moon,
for example. Human beings have always known it was there, but astronauts didn't explore it until 1969.
For medieval Europeans, much of Asia and the Far East might as well have been the moon. They had
heard of countries called Persia and China, but they knew next to ( 1 ) about them.
So, it is surprising to discover that China and Europe had been trading since Roman times. The key to
it all was silk. This beautiful material is woven from thread produced by silkworms. Chinese silk was
finer than all others, and the Chinese guarded the secrets of its manufacture ( 2 ).
Wealthy Europeans had always loved to dress in silk. Every year great amounts of it were transported
overland and sold for huge amounts of money. Back in the other direction, west ( 3 ) east, went goods
such as horses, wool, silver, and gold. Over the centuries, a network of tracks spread across Asia.
Together, they came to be known as the Silk Road.
( 4 ) the goods traveled thousands of miles, few of the merchants did. Instead, a trader would buy
something of value, transport it part of the way, then, sell it to another trader, who would do the same.
This was partly for ( 5 ) Å\ the distance between the Chinese capital (today's Beijing) and the great
trading port of Venice was more than 5,000 miles Å\ and partly for safety, as the routes could be
extremely dangerous. Åö
(1) w
(2) W)
(3) W
(4) W
(5) (4)
4
anything (n)
closely (n)
by (n)
As (n)
convenience (n)

(15,S)
everything
easily
from
However
experience
H nothing
M lately
H in
M Still
M instance
(Å\) something
(-) openly
(-) to
(-) While
-) security
l i> & <7>Åí(-f)~(1
(1) Most experts can ( ) a real pearl from an imitation one.
M) take (n) teach H tell (-) transfer
A sood wav of getting ( ) of vour stress is to identify the particular situation that causes it.
• EE3ttt2017ÅíS*Å_AKiaajEJB
**06* GO

. if
It is a shame that there is no
(-0 loss
(n) lost
W)
(4) (
acquire
) to
(n) acquired
I've never seen a giant panda,
(n) On
(3) It is common for people to judge other cultures using only knowledge (
W) Next
(5) They are on good (
W) degrees
The company carried out a survey three times last year to look if their customers were satisfied with
M) (o) M (=)
) with their neighbors,
(n) friends
their products.

(5) For the Aztec people of Central America, chocolate was not just a favorite food Å\ it also was an
M) (n) M
important role in their religious and social lives.
<=>
century.
(3) In spite scientific developments, many aspects of the brain are still not fully understood in the 21st
M) (n) M (-)
n &<7)(1)~(5)CD(15,Åí)
SSJ (1) With its rich volcanic soil and ideal farming conditions, Hawaii is the only U.S. state that grow
M) <o) M (-)
coffee commercially.

(2) The increasing number of vehicles and the widespread use of loud-speakers are two of the majority
M) (a) M
causes of urban noise pollution.
t=)
(Å\) ridden
) through the media.
(-) acquiring

(=) Up

(Å\) terms
53-

H rid
; using only kn
M acquires

M Over

M manners

(1) A: Should I phone him tomorrow about the contract?
A: It's a good plan as far as ( ), but you need to provide much more detail.
B: Actually, I haven't finished yet. I'll bring you a longer version in a few days.
the two countries.
), rather than talk to him over the phone. It's more
B: I think you should meet him (
personal that way.
W cheek to cheek
M head to head
(n)
(-)
face to face
nose to nose
M) it comes (n) it goes M we come (-) we go
(3) A: Living and working in the city can be really stressful sometimes.
B: Yes, I know. Sometimes I just want to ( ).
A: Me too. I'd love to spend a few days by the sea.
W) get away from it all (n) get hold of someone
M get on with it (Å\) get there in the end
(4) A: Why did he quit his job so suddenly?
B: I heard that his boss shouted at him all the time. He couldn't ( ) any more.
(A) give it (n) make it H take it (=) use it
(5) A: It's very kind of you to ( ) me the job. I promise I will do my best.
B: I'm sure you will. Can you start work next Monday?
(A) consider (n) offer M present (Å\) show

(10.6)
(1) - a 7 Z> Åí Åí Ltz0
Her parents
(2)  
(ESrtt 2017 c
*w#*(ao
54
2^10 BUIR
90 53"

p.16
TmWvÅ‚i:fx&Åòv>0 (41,#.)
When Tim started a new job as a manager, one of his top priorities was communicating to his
office team that he valued each member's contribution. So at team meetings, as each member spoke up
about whatever project they were working ( X ), Tim made sure he put on his "active-listening face" to
signal that he cared about what each person was saying.
But after meeting with him a few times, Tim's team got a very different message from mthe one he
intended to send. After a few weeks of meetings, one team member was finally brave enough to ask
him the question that had been on everyone's mind. That question was: "Tim, are you angry with us right
now?" When Tim explained that he wasn't at all angry Å\ that he was just putting on his "active-listening
face"Å\ his colleague gently explained that his active-listening face looked a lot like his angry face.
According to Heidi Grant Halvorson, a social psychologist at Columbia Business School who has
extensively researched how people perceive* one another, Tim's story captures one of the primary
problems of being a human being: although you might wish to ( Y ) in a certain way to others, people
often perceive you in an altogether different way.
One person may think, for example, that by offering help to a colleague, others will see her as
generous. But
misunderstands
her offer as a lack of trust in his abilities. Just as he
she misunderstands him: she offered him help because she thought he was
overworked and stressed. He has, after all, been showing up early to work and going home late every
day. But that's not why he's,,,keeping strange hours; he just works best when the office is less crowded.
These kinds of misunderstandings lead to conflict and resentment not just at work, but at home too.
How many fights between couples have started with one person not understanding what another says
and does? He stares at his plate at dinner while she's telling a story and she ( Zi ) he doesn't care
about what she's saying, when really he is admiring the beautiful meal she made. She goes to bed early
rather than watching their favorite television show together like they usually do, and he ( Z2 ) she's not
interested in spending time with him, when really she's just exhausted after a tough day at work.
Most of the time, Halvorson says, people don't realize they are not seen by others the way they think
they are. "If I ask you," Halvorson told me, "about how you see yourself Å\ what traits* you would say
describe you Å\ and I ask someone who knows you well to list your traits, there will not be much
correlation* between what you say and what your friend says. There's a big gap between how other
people see us and how we see ourselves."
mThis gap arises, Halvorson explains, from some quirks* of human psychology. First, most people
suffer from what psychologists call ",c,the transparency illusion" Å\ the belief that what they feel, desire,
and intend is very clear to others, even though they have done very little to communicate clearly what is
going on inside their minds. Because people presume they are transparent, they might not spend the
time or effort to be as clear about their intentions or emotional states as they could be, giving people
around them very little information with which to make an accurate judgment.
"It's quite possible," Halvorson writes, "that how you look when you are slightly frustrated isn't all
that different from how you look when you are a little concerned, confused, disappointed, or nervous.
Your 'I'm kind of hurt by what you just said' face probably looks a lot like your 'I'm not at all hurt by
what you just said' face. And the majority of times that you've said to yourself, 'I made my intentions
clear,' or 'He knows what I meant,' you didn't, and mhe doesn't."
Notes: perceive MMi~trait correlation quirk iflNS&ffSt)
A. ÅíBf( X 1
M) about (n) in M on (Å\) with
B. T^SgRD^flLTv^ffiF^lrMoit,
C. gpfi( Y ) CASSt LttWS)^f>c^W'fH-)cc('^f) loI[FiÅòvÅ_
W) appear (a) exist H reflect (-) speak
D. THgR2)Åí,
m%<Dfsimt, 
E. TSlgl$(3)t m C*Bfe{CtzhX. n e>tiZÅ‚fr<0*tlltÅò 4Sv>Å·
*$<Åí>#!Åò (
(
F. Åíffi( Zi ) t (
W) assumes
)
)
Z2 ) IC&iiLTS-niJ&igfc lollf&$v>0
(n) hears H looks (Å\) seems
G. Tl&mvofornix&Åí1 ogtffcsv>o
R HÅítt 2017 ^B^^AKF^SSIER
H.
I
W)
(n)
H
(=)
W)
(n)
H
(=)
-55-
swr*(sq

the gap between how you see yourself and how others actually see you
the gap between how you try to act and what you actually do
the gap between the way you see yourself and the way others see themselves
the gap between the way you think others should behave and the way others think they should behave

I believe all of my friends knew how exhausted I was after I finished that job.
I believe everyone was deceived by what the boss said yesterday.
I believe the way I see things may be different from the way others see them.
I believe it is very hard to recognize if something is almost transparent.
THg&(6)<7>& t 4 If & $ vÅ_,
H) When Tim started working as a manager, he wanted to encourage every team member to speak up.
(n) Tim tried so hard to communicate with the members of his team that they were too scared to
share their ideas with him.
H Halvorson's study reveals that though you may try to make yourself understood, there is always
room for misunderstanding.
(Å\) Examples of misunderstanding are found everywhere except at home.
(*) People are very happy if others see them almost the same way as they see themselves.
W People often have the false belief that they can see the truth hidden behind other people's
behavior.
(W It does not matter that your intentions may be misunderstood when you say something to others.
n FA-fxtto JrtiZmfr,
Cfl (39&)
I want you to travel with me to a famine camp* in Sudan on the Ethiopian border. You may have seen
the dreadful television reports of the starving babies, their bellies swollen. Flies crawl in and out of their
eyes and mouths, trying to suck the last drops of moisture that cling there as long as these babies cling to
life. Now you are among them, as a reporter for a daily newspaper, required to write about a place you
have never been before, about an event you can't possibly understand, for readers who will never go
there and,,,don't know what it has to do with them Å\ beyond giving money to charity.
You've been at the camp for several days. You walk its ground each day, stepping around and over
,,,100,000 people who have come because they heard there was water. ( X ) the time they arrived Å\
some of them walking three weeks from their Ethiopian villages Å\ the water was no more than a well of
mud in a dry riverbed.
You watch the little girls walk to the river and dig in the mud, soaking their old torn clothes with
moisture that they wring*, drop by drop, into their plastic cups. You sit in the clinic where the waiting
line is hundreds of people long. Desperate fathers push their babies at you, thinking that because you
are a khawaja, a foreigner, you must be a doctor. You must be able to help. But all you have to offer is
a notebook and some questionsÅ\,,,suddenly too little to capture this reality.
At night you retreat to the other side of the straw wall that encloses this awful world. You collapseÅ\
( Y ) of your temporary hunger, of your selfish fears Å\ on a bed in a small straw hut*. You're grateful
that it's dark, that you will not have to look at things for a few hours, but you can still hear. You hear
coughing and crying. You hear shouts, angry bursts of life, and the final sounds people make as they die.
Then you hear something else: singing. You hear sweet chants and deep rhythms. Each night, over
and over, at about the same time. You think you are dreaming. You wonder if you have gone quite mad
from your fear. How could people sing in the face of this horror? And why? You lie in the dark and
you wonder until you fall asleep. Daylight comes again, and you open your eyes.
I went to Africa in 1985 to report on the Ethiopian famine for a newspaper. I had never been outside
of North America. The singing puzzled me. (4
go through several translators before someone
me several
to
what it was. I had to
told me that it was storytelling.
the villages
in Ethiopia and ( Z ) is now Eritrea* finally got too dry for people to survive there, they got up and
walked to the famine camps. Then they settled, in whatever little huts they could find, as a village.
They continued whatever customs they could. One of their customs was their nightly storytelling. The
elders gathered the children around, and they sang their songs.
It was their version of school. It was how they carried their history and culture and law with them.
. Jt may have been my first conscious awareness of the power, history, and universality of storytelling.
all grew up
stories, but do we ever stop to think about how much they connect us and how
powerful they are?
Even in the face of death these stories live on, passed from elder to younger, from generation to
PKttt 2017 Fp^HIER c
SWS*(SO
-56-
generation, carried L^as / as much / care / with] those precious cups of water. EÅ_
and die, life changes. But stories endure.
Stories are our soul. Write and tell yours with your whole selves. (7)TeUthem
matters. It matters that you do it as if that's all there is.
Notes: famine camp L tf wring &C& hut /Ml
Eritrea i'J b'JTfiftt'TttOi, 1993^izx^* tf TfrbB.iL)
are all that
A. it t them
C?
it
Hi a daily newspaper
(a) a daily newspaper
M an event
(Å\) an event
them
babies
readers
babies
readers
B. TÅ‚(2)Å·i5c^^^fgcooo^^(c^^tT,
C. S0r( X )twAS*feJlÅ·J'S:RS:Å‚CWW)~(=)<Otf'AÅ‚e,loaaffl:SvÅ‚o
W) But (n) By M For (Å\) Until
D. loiWJi>0
W) You suddenly feel that the famine camp is too small for you to live in.
(n) You suddenly feel that though you are too small to do heavy work, you can help the people in the
famine camp by writing.
M Your notebook and questions suddenly seem too small to cope with the situation in the famine
camp.
(-) Your notebook and questions suddenly seem too small compared to the size of the famine camp.
E. Y ) fcA&Sk1
W) ashamed (a) ignorant H kind (Å\) proud
F. T*WK4)Sr. "whatitwas" R "it" B*fÅò(c|R
LÅí$vÅ_,
G. Z ) loji!7Åí$vÅ_,
Mi that (n) what H where (-) which
H. loiO'iJK
W) Maybe it was at that moment that I first understood the powerful, historical, and universal
significance of storytelling.
(a) I had always been consciously aware of the power, history, and universality of storytelling.
M It was probably the first time I really understood that storytelling is powerfully and historically
connected to universities.
(-) By that time I had forgotten how powerful, historical, and universal storytelling is.
I
J
K.
W)
(n)
M
(=)
TÅ·ISB(6)^iELvÅ‚i{CJ5:S

Talk to people pretending that you are the most important person.
Talk to people as if you believe that they are what matters.
Tell stories to people as if nothing is more important than the people themselves.
Tell stories to people as if nothing is more important than the stories.
a&4-ÅíA,o
W)
(n)
H
(=)
(*)
The author is planning to take people to famine camps during a tour of Ethiopia.
The author urges readers to provide financial aid to Ethiopian famine camps.
The author went to Africa in 1985 to provide medical aid for the people in famine camps.
The people came to the famine camp to get water, but all the water they could find was muddy.
Exhaustion caused the author to imagine that the people in the famine camp were singing
H The people in the famine camp sang songs and told stories to earn money for food.
(W The author tells readers that stories are not just for fun, but are also a way for a culture to survive,
n (15,Åí0
U On this device the battery never runs out and you never have to worry about getting a bad signal.
When this device first appeared, crowds lined the streets, ( 1 ) to get their hands on it. Magazines
described the American debut of the ballpoint pen in 1945 as an event of world importance.
At $12.50 a pen Å\ around $160 today Å\ the ballpoint pen wasn't cheap, but that didn't ( 2 )
thousands from lining up outside Gimbels department store in New York City on October 29 of that year
to buy this "fantastic, miracle pen." According to the New Yorker, Gimbels sold a huge number of the

-57-
3*Ble*(a0
pens Å\ nearly $1.3 million today Å\ on that one day alone.
Seventy years ( 3 ), the ballpoint pen isn't making headlines, but it's still hugely popular. The pens
are cheap, long-lasting and extremely portable. They've ( 4 ) a long way from that first day in Gimbels
Å\ because the first ballpoint pen, frankly, didn't work very well. It would leak ink and make huge black
marks on the paper. Its main selling point was that it came with a two-year guarantee. The company
that made the pen replaced 104,643 ( 5 ) pens within the first eight months.
(1) W) dangerous
(2) (4) allow
(3) {4) ago
(4) W) been
(5) (-i) broken
(a) eager
(n) escape
(n) before
(n) come
(n) cheap
H lucky
H help
M later
M gone
M repaired
(Å\) surprised
(Å\) stop
(Å\) over
(Å\) run
) spare
(15/%)
(1) There aren't many people who have (
W) accepted
) After Sue finis!
W) much-longed
(n) accessed
last assignment, st
(n) much-needed
) everything they had once planned to do in their lives.
H accounted (Å\) achieved
(2) After Sue finished her last assignment, she finally had time for a (
H much-noticed
) vacation.
(Å\) much-traveled
(3) I hope Tom's broken arm will heal ( ) time for the Festival.
W) at (n) by H for (Å\) in
(4) The show is not over ( ) the actors take their final bows at the end.
M) after (n) when H until (Å\) yet
(5) By ( ), Oxford is a much smaller city than London.
W) comparison (n) connection H contrasting (Å\) crossing
KJ (1) She says that lack of access prevents people with disabilities from taking part in many
M) w
everyday activities that other people take as granted.
M (-)
(2) It was rude of me to have opened my mouth without taking account into who was present.
M) (D) M (-)
(3) More than 90% of corn fields in the U.S. are now used to growing genetically engineered crops.
M) (o) M (-)
(4) The idea that a younger son should become ruler instead of an elder daughter simply because he's a
M) (D)
man is at odd with the modern society we have become.
H (=)
(5) Giving flowers may seem like a good way to show how much you love your mom, but it's
W)
terrible idea if you care about Mother Earth.
M (-)
6
(a)
&c9(iM5)Å·*ffS^itfozilc& t <01 oSO?& Åí v>0 (15 *0
(1) A: What size shirt do you wear?
B: I'm not sure. Can you ( ) me?
W) balance
(n) fit
M measure
(2) A: I'd like to make a ( ) about the TV I bought here last week.
B: I'm sorry to hear that. What exactly was the problem?
W) blame (n) complaint H fault
(3) A: What's going ( ) between you and Gary? Did you have a fight?
B: Yes, we did, and I really don't like him anymore.
W) about (n) by
(4) A: Do you realize what time it is?
B: I'm sorry, I was so busy that I (
W) dropped
) A: How in
B: Yes, Ik
W) could
(o) forgot
ive I told y
) have forj
(a) must
M on

) track of time.
M lost
(Å\) scale
(Å\) trouble
(Å\) with
(-) missed
(5) A: How many times have I told you to call me if you are going to be late?
B: Yes, I know. I ( ) have forgotten.
M should
(Å\) would
n tztzL, U)tt#;l&ft:fcSS-e:fc***.*Åí
mm t o (10.$.)
(1) $>ti;tzii<Åò-$)(D9G%.l)sWiL~C^*%> Z. hfffofrt) Åíi~fr?
Do now?

ES;tt2017^a*^AttPpMIER •
*Å°Å‚*(Å‚) (SI)
58
(2)
My sister
2 B 6 B
90#
p.18
L
1
(40*0
1 Mothers nowadays may feel like they're too busy to sit down, and ,,many probably are, but a
recent report suggests that on average they are far more sedentary Å\ in other words, spend more time
seated Å\ than moms were 50 years ago.
Since 1965, women with children have spent increasingly more time watching television and driving,
and increasingly less time playing with children, doing chores*, and exercising, according to the report.
In 1965, mothers of children aged 5 to 18 spent 14.2 more hours a week being physically active than
being sedentary. In 2010, they spent 3.8 more hours a week being sedentary than they did on physical
activity.
The authors of the report used data from a representative sample of American people over the past
fifty years. For the purposes of the report, physical activity" was defined as time spent cooking and
cleaning, along with playing with children and exercising. Sedentary activity was everything else non-
work-related, such as time spent watching television, surfing the Internet, as well as time spent driving.
They found that
per week less in 2010
with older children
were physically active for about 11 hours
in 1965. Among moms with children younger than 5, the decline was nearly
14 hours a week. Today, in 2010, the two groups are physically active for 20.9 and 29.7 hours each
week, respectively.
Though we might think unemployed mothers have more time for exercise, physical activity has
decreased more among mothers who don't work than among those who have full-time jobs. However,
nowadays, moms who don't work still spend more total time being physically active than those who
(4)do. Mothers with older children have also increased their sedentary time by 7 hours a week since
1965. The increase was 5.7 hours a week for mothers with younger children. Again, unemployed
mothers saw greater increases in sedentary time. ( X ), mothers today burn between 1,238 and 5,835
calories less each week than mothers did in the 1960s. A kilogram of fat is roughly 9,000 calories.
Of course, much of the decline has to do ( Y ) housework. Dishwashers didn't become a common
part of middle-class homes until the 1970s, and clothes washers and dryers were too expensive for many
until the 1980s. Few women today would likely say that their preferred form of exercise is washing
clothes by hand.
But the other side of the technological-advancement argument is how widespread M screen-based
entertainment is: physical activity time reached a low point in the 1990s, according to the report
authors, just as the Internet became popular and TVs greatly decreased in price.
If mothers set examples for children, they're increasingly modeling a screen- and car-based existence,
which will probably not be good for either their own or their kids' health. Not only does a pregnant
woman's body mass index* affect the health of her fetus*, the report authors say ,c,kids raised by
sedentary parents are less likely to have healthy habits themselves. "Evidence suggests that mothers'
behavior may also play a role in determining the risk of obesity* in children," they point out.
It's not clear what the solution is here. According to a study, among couples with children, when both
parents work full-time, women do more housework, childcare, and other household tasks each week,
leaving many feeling like they already come home to a "second job." Many unemployed mothers, on
the other hand, likely don't have the resources to join exercise classes, or even to pay for an hour of
babysitting so they can jog around the block. There was very little good about the days when women
essentially stayed at home, and were unpaid manual laborers, but ( Z ) that lifestyle might have been
better for their physical fitness.
Notes: chores body mass index BMI fetus I&ifi obesity SEii

many ( ) probably are ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
B. TilgK(2)(7)ffiJbLXM-CHi ho* tztzL, 3oJK
Å}m h i 4 ^Å·,
M) buying food (n) cleaning the windows M driving
(=} having lunch with friends fa) listening to music W reading magazines
• EXtt2017ÅíH*Å_AMFpmiDÅ‚
-59-
2010^1- 1 '3 <T) "physically active" "C&ofcR#FalStfÅ} ( a ) KiPfi"?', 1965^(4 ( b
%<Dtz)ib, 1965^i; "sedentary" "C&ofcBffUJifcii ( c ) BfHSj "Åí'&•?> 0
W) (a) 20.9
(a) (a) 20.9
M (a) 29.7
(-) (a) 29.7
(b) 31.9
(b) 34.9
(b) 40.7
(b) 43.7
(C) 17.7
(c) 31.1
(c) 36.9
(-) (a) 29.7 (b) 43.7 (c) 29.5
D. 1 !ÅòÅí#ÅíÅí SvÅ_,

mm-ciofco
W) As a result (n) In contrast M In the meantime (Å\) Nonetheless
F. Åíffi( Y ) KA&mt lol^?v>0
W) at (n) for M in (-) with
G. TB%(5)omtLXMXliÅí 1 olof4Sv>,
W) computer games
M social networking services
(n)
(=)
library books
TV
H. T&R(6)Åír,
 
I
%m( z ) hzx&mt ioi&^Åòv>0
W) happily
(a) hopefully
M ironically
J. tztzL,
J6i-ÅíA/0
(Å\) unusually
3 B
W) Although mothers with older children have become much more sedentary, mothers with younger
children still have a lot of time for physical activity.
(a) Thanks to modern technology, mothers can now spare more time for physical activity.
M Even for women today with jobs, their lifestyle is not necessarily better for their health than that
of women without jobs.
(Å\) Since mothers today tend to copy lifestyles shown in movies, they are more conscious of the need
for a healthy lifestyle and raise their children accordingly.
(*) Recent studies suggest that mothers' behavior significantly affects their children's physical
development.
H These days, when both parents have full-time jobs, they usually share the housework after they
return home from the workplace.
(H Unemployed mothers today have plenty of free time and so they can enjoy exercise classes while
other family members are at work.
n (40#.)
E9 One day, John popped into a convenience store to buy a cup of coffee. He poured his coffee and
took the cup to the table that had the cup covers, sugar, and other coffee-related things. The coffee cup
was very hot, so the first thing on his ( X ) was getting a cardboard* holder to place it in. His hand was
starting to feel uncomfortable from the heat, but he had to wait because the store was crowded and three
people were blocking his path to the cup holders. They were a mother with her two children, a young
girl and a slightly older boy.
The mother had a hot cup of coffee in her right hand and urgently wanted to slip it into a holder. Her
left hand was carrying a couple of things she wanted to purchase, so she asked the boy to take a holder
from the rack, mwhich he did. The holder was pressed flat, and she asked him to open it and hold it on
the table so that she could slip her cup into it.
with this flat thing. She explained in more del
him to do
that he should hold it between his thumb and fingers
and squeeze to open it up. ,,He still didn't get it. After all, how could a piece of cardboard "open up"?
He tried to wrap the flattened cardboard around the cup she was holding.
The mother had a ( Y ) expression on her face Å\ one that John probably shared Å\ because her hand
was getting very hot. At this point, the little girl, clearly frustrated by her big brother's inability to see
what could be done with the flattened holder, took it from his hand, pinched it so that it expanded into a
ring, and then placed it on the table for her mother to slip the cup into. Only just in time.
Generally, older children solve problems better than younger ones. However, meven the short life
exDerience of older children can sometimes be a disadvantage when it's necessary to look bevond the
obvious to solve a
In
of situations, younger
can sometimes have greater
freedom of thought.
In an experiment, a team of developmental psychologists showed five-year-old, six-year-old, and
seven-year-old children a miniature room that contained a teddy bear, and told the children that the
teddy bear wanted a toy out of reach on a high shelf inside that room. The room also contained a box
and a few other objects that the bear could potentially use to help solve ,.,the problem. Unsurprisingly,
the older children were more likely than the younger children to use the box as a platform for the bear
aÅíÅ·2017ÅíS*^AKPpmEfg •
Å_*R*(8)
60
to stand on and reach the toy. ,filThe few
children who were able to think of this solution
needed more time than the older ones to figure it out.
That's what happened when the box was presented separately from the other objects. For a different
group of kids, (7)it was initially filled with the other objects, reminding them of a box's usual function as
a container. When the box contained something, the younger children were more likely than the older
ones to think of it as a platform for the bear to stand on. They also thought of this solution more
quickly than the older kids. The little ones' relative lack of life experience enabled them to consider the
wider possibilities that were not thought of by the older children.
Note: cardboard WM.
A. %.Wf( X ) teA&Mt 1 oMiJK
W) head (n) mind M opinion (Å\) spirit
B. Åí<D X d Å_ztÅíhfr0 #x. bfifzm^}
Kmfr, S-t(Å}i&fÅò^Åí*:Åò&$v>o
and he 
C. TÅ‚Å·(2)Sr, 5-z.btitzm^KmiX, ^R.a;t#a635^mrt<0H^^lRL^$v>o
 
D. TÅ‚(3)o get t H 1 ol^ji,>0
W He didn't get anything from anybody on his birthday.
(n) He didn't get anywhere in spite of all the efforts he made.
H I am sure he got what I meant because he nodded his head in agreement.
(-) Security was tight and the police got him before he could do anything.
E. &m( Y ) izx&mt LrMi>mw%<i><DZ-&<DM~(-)<o'pfrb IOIWJK
W) curious (n) happy H pained (-) peaceful
W) Older children have more experience and are better at solving problems than younger children,
(n) Older children need to help younger children gain more experience at solving problems.
H Older children have more experience than younger children but occasionally this can cause them
difficulty in seeing solutions to problems.
(Å\) Older children have more experience than younger children but more often it can take them
longer to solve problems.
W) A few younger children were able to think of this solution, and they could do it more quickly than
the older ones.
(n) Although a few younger children needed more time than the older ones, they were able to find a
better solution.
H Few younger children were able to think of this solution, and even they needed more time than
the older ones.
(Å\) Quite a few younger children were able to think of this solution, but they needed more time than
the older ones.
i. rmm7W%ii-i)<7>zik<r)(-i)~(=.)<7)*1 oi^jv>0
W)
H
the box
the miniature room
(n) the high shelf
(Å\) the teddy bear
J. 2oiTOgV'o tztiL, 30JiLtjlA-fiii
^!Å}#.ÅíÅíEa6i-ÅíA,o
(-f) John wanted a hot cup of coffee and some magazines in the convenience store.
(n) Though his mother clearly explained what she wanted, the boy could not understand it.
H The little girl was able to help her mother in the convenience store because she was assisted by John.
(-) The younger children could perform the psychologists' task better than the older ones because
they were more attracted to the teddy bear.
(*) Older children always solve problems more quickly than younger ones.
W Sometimes younger children can find solutions to problems more quickly than older ones because
they are less experienced.
(H There is no connection between age and the ability to solve problems.
Å· (15,Åí0
El It is hard to say who first put fish on the menu. The invention of the grand 'modern' style of
cookery in Europe has usually been traced ( 1 ) to the Sicilians or their neighbors, the people of the
town of Sybaris, a short way across the sea at the tip of Southern Italy. In the year 510 these people
were defeated by the Sicilians and their city destroyed, but stories of their fabulous riches were ( 2 )
being told hundreds of years later. One historian recorded a law in Sybaris that gave the inventor of a
• BXtt2017ÅíllÅ}^AttPpl!SiE)S?
61

new dish a year's copyright, which meant that any restaurant that wanted to serve the dish had to pay
the inventor a small sum of money. ( 3 ), he claimed that in Sybaris fishers and fish-sellers did not
have to pay tax.
Fish also seems to have been very important in the food culture of Sicily. According to one source,
they called the sea itself 'sweet' because they so ( 4 ) the food that came out of it. Sicily also produced
the first cookbooks. Among the earliest was one by a famous chef called Mithaecus. Very few of his
books remain, but the few fragments that we still have today show how central fish was to the diet of his
time and place. In one of these fragments Mithaecus advises: 'Cut off the head of the ribbon fish*.
Wash it and cut it into slices. Pour cheese and oil over it'Å\ one of the earliest ( 5 ) recipes.
Note: ribbon fish
(1) W)
(2) H)
(3) H)
(4) W)
(5) H)
4
back
again
Although
enjoyable
lived
7 V
(n)
(n)
(n)
(n)
(o)
& <0( 1 )~(5 )<Åí>#:Åí t: Åí v > T,
(15,6)
(1) I think getting (
W) along
(2) When you play on a team every member (
W) brings
(3) The Van Gogh art exhibition was shown (
before M out (Å\) over
ever H still (-) yet
Clearly M Moreover (Å\) Nevertheless
enjoyed M enjoying (Å\) enjoyment
living H survived (Å\) surviving

) with people is as important as being independent.
M longer (Å\) sooner
were the boss of the entire company.
H what (Å\) when
(d) by
am every memt
(n) contributes
(5) If you would prefer not to ( ) in this activity, please let me know.
W) earlier (n) faster
(4) The new office manager acted (
W) as (d) like
M out (-) up
) to its success or failure.
M gives (-) helps
) this month in Washington, D.C.
W) act (d) belong M participate (-) play
(1) I don't want you to go, either, but it seems that we don't really have some choice in the
M) (D) M (-)
(3) The purpose to this message is to thank all the members of our club
for
M
they believe will be
matter.

I It is vital that we connect with yo
H)
important to them in their adult lives.
(-)
vital that we connect with young people and teach them the skills
H)
put in.
(-)
what
(n)
all the hard work they've
(4) We want to prevent a situation that people spread the disease because they are ignorant about it.
M) (D) M (-)
(5) How I liked about this book was the author's description of the rapidly changing post-war world in
M) (D) M
the early 70s.


KJI (1) A: Where shall we go for our vacation this year, Tony?
B: How about Florida? It's cheap, and good weather is ( ).
W) guaranteed (n) insured M protected (-) secured
(2) A: Does this bus go all the ( ) to Los Angeles?
B: Yes, that's actually the last stop.
W) road (n) travel M trip (Å\) way
(3) A: The weather is absolutely beautiful today, isn't it?
B: Yes, I ( ) it was like this more often.
W) desire (n) hope M want (-) wish
(4) A: What do you plan on making for dinner tonight?
B: I was ( ) of just making a salad.
W) considering to) imagining H thinking (-) wondering
(5) A: Do your parents help you with your homework?
EXtt 2017 •
*WS*(R -62-
B: Yes, they do. My father ( ) me French and my mother helps me with English.
(Å°i) assists
7
(n) speaks
tztz L,
do*)
H teaches
-5-x
(-) tells
(2MJ#x b fitzWZ&z. %> i 10
(1) mix- Åò h tÅí b^o
I need
(2) r^TÅ_Fr Å_^W'^Å_fTÅíbT^T^TEJTfiTtzo
Everyone
excellent.
Mill ////I

IKS • flHH ' AIW5* ' 3 ' I 2 B 4 B'i
70 >m Å° 0lÅí:fcfl;ÅíÅ‚Åí)iÅ}9O#
p.20

Sitting at the front of the grade four classroom in her school uniform, Priscilla Sitienei listens
carefully while she writes the English names of animals in her notebook. She joined Leaders Vision
Preparatory School* five years ago and has also served her village in the Rift Valley in Kenya* as a
midwife* for the last sixty-five years. In fact, she has helped deliver some of her own classmates, who
are aged ten to fourteen.
Fondly known as "Gogo", which means grandmother in the local Kalenjin language*, she says that at
age ninety she is finally learning to read and write Å\ an opportunity she never had as a child. More
comfortable speaking in Kalenjin than English, she explains why she wanted to return to school. "I'd
like to be able to read the Bible. I also want to m inspire children to get an education. Too many older
children are not in school. They even have children themselves."
Gogo says she,,, confronts children who are not in school and asks them why. "They tell me they are too
old," she says. "I tell them, 'Well I go to school and so should you.' I see children who are lost, children
who are without fathers, just, a, going round and round, hopeless. I want to inspire them to go to school."
At first, the school officials Mturned her away. However, they soon understood how,,,committed she
was to learning. The head teacher, David Kinyanjui, believes that Gogo, who lives in the village school,
is ,,,an example to the rest of her class. "I'm very proud of her," he says. "Gogo has been a blessing to
this school. She has been a positive influence on all the pupils. She is loved by every pupil, and they all
want to learn and play with her. She is doing well, and I can say I have seen a big difference in this
school since she came."
Sitienei grew up in Kenya when it was occupied by the British, and she lived through her country's
(5)struggle for independence. Now a school leader, she stakes part in all of the classes Å\ math, English,
P.E.*, dance, drama, and singing. Dressed in her blue school uniform and green sweater, she also tells
stories to her classmates to make sure her knowledge of local customs is Mpassed on. The children sit
under trees near the playing fields and listen to every word she says.
An eleven-year-old girl says she is Gogo's best friend because Gogo tells stories to, and goes to P.E.
with, the students. A ten-year-old school boy says the grandmother also likes to mikeep them in order.
"We love Gogo because when we make noise she tells us to keep quiet," he says.
The current record for the oldest elementary school pupil in the Guinness Book of Records* is held by
Å_ another Kenyan, the late Kimani Maruge. He went to school at the age of eighty-four, in 2004, and died
five years later. Sitienei's elementary school says it will write to the record keepers to inform them
about their ninety-year-old student.
"I want to say to the children of the world, especially girls, that education will be your wealth. Don't
look back and run to your father," she says. "With education you can be whatever you want, a doctor, a
lawyer, or a pilot." Gogo's own lesson is that it is never too late.
(?Å}) *Preparatory School *the Rift Valley in Kenya >r Å\ 7<DV "7 ffl
*midwife Bt2Sf5|i *Kalenjin language i) U > v > Ho *P.E. (Physical Education)
*the Guinness Book of Records
(1) inspire
a. encourage b. force c. control d. surround
(2) confronts
• SEXtt 2017
63
MWII*
. avoids
committed
a. devoted
(4) an example to
a. a master of
(5) struggle
a. wait
looks over at
exposed
a sample of
chance
praises
sensitive
a suggestion for
fight
goes up to
relative
a model for
dream
Ti&W~(E)OgÅílSi *><Åí>Åí a~dj&>P> 1 ofoICFftS^
going round and round
not knowing what to do
coming to a path
turned her away
did not like her
changed her mind
(C) takes part in
a. attends
(D) passed on
a. enjoyed
(E) keep them in order
M3
1
2
3
4
teaches

valued
b
d
b
d
circling the same things
not chasing one another
made her go outside
did not accept her
c. asks about

c. conveyed
d. responds to
d. ignored
a. discipline them b. have them line up
c. help them get along d. entertain them
1 ~5 a~d^f> lofol^jv^
Which of the following is true about Gogo?
a. She helped some of her classmates give birth to a child.
b. She started her career at the age of fifteen.
c. She gave up her career to go back to school.
d. She joined the Preparatory School at the age of eighty-five.
What is one reason why Gogo decided to go to Leaders Vision Preparatory School?
a
b
She needed the education for her career advancement.
She wanted to improve her reading skills.
She wanted to teach children how to read and write.
c. ane wanted to teacn cmiaren now to reaa ana write
d. She only knew how to speak the Kalenjin language.
Why does Gogo try to get children to go to school?
a
b
She is worried that other pupils want to play with her.
She is concerned that many people have no options for the future.
She realizes that children do not need any more advice.
c. 5>ne realizes mat cnnaren ao not neea any more aavice.
d. She believes the head teacher was not helping students enough.
What is Kimani Maruge known for?
a. He is a Guinness Book Record holder.
b. He went to the oldest elementary school in Kenya.
c. He tried going to elementary school when he was ninety.
d. He was always late for school.

a
What is the message that Gogo wants to send to the world?
That teaching will bring you financial success.
That children should be educated by their parents.
That education opens doors to one's dreams.
c. mat education opens aoors to one s areams.
d. That girls should be taught to become good working mothers.
I [A) &(D#!Åí;Åíc7>2gff ( i )~( 5
1

2.
a
[A) &Å·#!Åí;Åíc7>2gff ( l )~( 5 )KX
A: Hey, that's a nice jacket. Where did you get it?
B: Actually, ( 1 ).
A: Really? It looks so new.
B: That's because he rarely wore it.
my sister thought so too b. I got it at a department store last year
it used to belong to my brother d. my father bought it for my birthday
A: Hi, Aki. I heard that you went to Los Angeles last month.
B: Three of us went. My company is trying to expand its business in America.
A: I see. ( 2 )
B: A little, but we couldn't go to the beach.
Had you been there before on your own? b. Did you have time to do anything fun?
BEXti 2017 ^a^AStF^SiESI •
#3ÅòJII*
64
) tasty that I asked her how she had made it.
• fESrti 2017 ÅíBÅ}Å_AttF.flBIOÅ_
. How long was the flight? d. Will they stay there long?
A: Good morning, Mr. Jacobs. I hope you slept well.
B: Not really. I'm too close to the hotel elevator. It's very noisy.
A: I'm sorry to hear that. ( 3 )
B: That would be nice. I can't imagine another night like last night.
. However, the elevator is working fine.
. We will remove the guest at once, if you like.
. Unfortunately, it's not possible right now.
. I can give you a new room tonight if you want.
A: Excuse me. Do you have a minute? We can't get this done.
B: I'm sorry, I didn't catch that. ( 4 )
A: I said there's a problem. The project is due soon, but I don't think we can finish it.
B: I see. Maybe I can make some time and help out later today.
a. How do you say it?
c. When will we know?
b. Why do you think so?
d. What's the matter?
5. A: Hello, Maria. I see you went shopping already.
B: Yeah. ( 5 )
A: Did you get the chicken and rice?
B: Oh, no. I forgot.
a. I have the car today, so it was convenient. b. But I have no idea what to get.
c. I don't remember, but it should be okay. d. But I must go to the bank first.
(B] ( 1 )~( 5 ) a~d^
A: Excuse me. Can I ask you a question?
B: Sure. How can I help?
A: Well, I was trying to find the art museum, ( 1 ). Do you know if it's around here?
B: Let me think. I know ( 2 ). Past that, there is a post office and a library. But I'm not sure what
else is around.
A: Did you say a library? ( 3 ) My friend told me to look for a library.
B: That might be it then. The library is fairly new. It's kind of tall, and it's all glass. I've heard it's
really nice inside, too, though I've never been there myself.
A: Maybe I'll stop there, too. I love libraries. Anyway, did you say it was over that way?
B: No, straight up this way. ( 4 ) You'll see the post office first. It's a big, old building. There are
lots of trees out front, and the doors are painted white.
A: OK, I've got it. That's very helpful. Thank you so much. I thought I might have to wander
around all day.
B: You're quite welcome. If you can't find it, ( 5
A: Thank you. I will.
(1) a. and I have to try soon
(2)


(3)


(4)

(5)
c
a
c
a
c
a
c
and you don't have a plan
there is a supermarket up the street
it might not be open today
You should plan to meet there.
I wonder if it's next to that.
It doesn't work.
I must remember.
a. just ask someone
c. go to the museum
)
b.
d.
b.
d.
b.
d.
b.
d.
b.
d.
but I think I'm lost
but you can't find it
it's always so crowded on holidays
there isn't a park nearby
It can't be around at all.
Maybe it's the last time.
We found it before.
You can't miss it
return your books later
then move away
(A) & <DmiC<DÅíM( 1 )~( 10 ) KA&*&jS-8Jfci>wÅía~dji>e> 1 ofolt/^j^o
We ( 1 ) on this project since last April. We hope to complete it by the end of this month.
a. worked
b. have been working c. are working
d. had worked
2. Ifhe( 2 ) Professor Tanaka in college, he would not have become a scientist.
a. has not met
b. did not meet
would not meet d. had not met
3
nas not met d. aia not meet c. wouia not meet
The teacher promised ( 3 ) the students to the library in the afternoon.
a. to take
b. taking
of our higl
b. which
friend's mi
b. such
c. take
sail team (
c. whose
4. I am the only member of our high school basketball team ( 4
5. The cake baked by my friend's mother was ( 5
c. too
6. Please call me as soon as you ( 6 ) at the airport.
a. who
The ca
a. very
d. of taking
) joined in the second year.
d. whom
>ked her how she had made
d. so
65

out ^altogether, leaving only those finches with effective beaks to survive.
Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection is abased on much
9. The hotel we stayed in provides excellent service to its customers. The staff responded ( 9 ) to
all our requests.
a. immediately b. gradually c. finally d. hardly
10. We asked all our clients if it was acceptable to make some changes to our initial plan, and none of
them had any ( 10 ).
a. temptations b. objections c. distinctions d. traditions
mm
U fcOZbttU/vt?, MWcgx.fcSv*,,
When Charles Darwin, famous for his scientific theory of evolution by natural selection, visited the
Galapagos Islands* in the 1830s, he made an interesting discovery about the native birds. He noticed
that thirteen ,a,individual species of finches* were similar in many ways, yet the size and shape of their
beaks* were different. Some of the birds had long, thin beaks, whereas others had short, thick ones.
Still others had shapes somewhere in between. As a result, Darwin mfigured that these species had come
from a common ancestor. Put another way, he thought that a single species of bird had eventually
evolved* into the thirteen distinct species that he had observed. But how and why had this happened?
Why did all the birds have beaks of different lengths?
Darwin noticed that each of the species occupied a separate island in the Galapagos chain. On each of
these islands, the finches ate different types of food. On one island, for example, they,,, lived on various
small insects, whereas on another, they ate fruits and nuts. Darwin then made an important connection
between the shape of the finches' beaks and the kind of food they ate. Each beak, he realized, was
suited to each bird's diet. Darwin observed that the finches with long, thin beaks lived in places where
they had to reach between rocks to get insects, while finches with thicker beaks lived on islands where
they used these beaks to inbreak open nuts.
Though Darwin's observations could be considered remarkable in their own right, they are also what
Darwin relied on to help develop his theory of evolution. He realized that the birds had grown beaks
suited to their particular environments because nature had caused these changes over many generations.
Long ago, birds with different types of beaks had probably lived on each island. However, over time, the
population of birds with beaks that were better suited to each island's available food supply had
increased. For example, finches with long, thin beaks did well on islands with many insects, whereas
those with other kinds of beaks on such islands disappeared. Over time, the poorly suited birds had died
Galapagos Islands. "Natural selection" refers to the process by which certain
what he discovered in the
a
arrived
7. The more we practice for the concert, ( 7
a. so
8. We need everyone's (
a. cooperate
9. It was nice ( 9 ) yov
a. of
arrive
the conce
the best
c. arriving
) our performance will be.
c. the better
c. cooperation
8 ) to achieve success in this event.
b. cooperating
will arrive

and

cooperated
9. It was nice ( 9 ) you to come visit us all the way from the other side of the city,
a. of b. from c. on d. to
10. It is probably not a good idea to change the topic of our presentation now, as we do not have
( 10 ) time.
a. some b. many c. few d. much
(B) 1 )~( 10 )
1. Many cafes try to create a relaxing ( 1 ) so that customers can enjoy their tea or coffee break,
a. atmosphere b. capacity c. admission d. committee
2. The judges all agreed that the group ( 2 ) the top prize for their amazing performance.
a. necessary b. obvious c. embarrassing
My family and I are new to this neighborhood. We moved here only ( 4
a. slowly b. previously c. frequently
Small cars are becoming more popular these days, since they are ( 5 ).
d. reasoned
appreciated
recently
a. detected d. revealed c. deserved d. rea
3. From the look on his face, it was ( 3 ) that he did not get much sleep last night.
6. I must ( 6 ) that I have made some foolish mistakes in the past.
a. expensive
4

5
a. propose
a. reception
8. My sister's new job (
a. requires
7. This problem is difficult to figure out, but if we work together, we may be able to find a ( 7 )
c. reserve
b. admit
: to figure out,
b. quality
1 ) her to con
b. preserves
d. demand
; able to find a
d. solution
:r department,
d. prevents
d. economical
b. enormous
c. evident
d.
).
d.
b. quality c. majority d. solution
8 ) her to communicate with people outside of her department,
b. preserves c. refuses d. prevents
sixtt 2017 •
4MSJII*
-66-
such as beak size, become more or less prominent for a species in an environment. "Evolution" refers to
the changes that occur in animal and plant characteristics, and ,n,how those changes lead to further selection.
Darwin's theory is not just for birds, but helps explain the evolution of all plant and animal species,
including humans. In short, an animal with characteristics that are better suited to its environment will
its chances
survival, thus increasing its chances for reproducing. This means that members
a species with biological characteristics better suited to their environment can replace others within
their own species, push aside other species, and even evolve into new species. What happens depends
on the ,S|circumstances. The process itself can take just a few generations or many thousands of years,
but the result is something like what Darwin had observed in the Galapagos Islands.
(?Å}) * the Galapagos Islands ffjft *finches 7 ^ (7 h 'J
*beaks < If L *evolved ii'fk L tz

(1) figured
(2)
a. studied
lived on
a
(4)
designed
consumed
b. destroy
b. completely
lead to
c
remembered
d. concluded
housed

crack

at the same time
d. removed

d. eat

d. in the end
treated
(3) break
reveal
altogether
quickly
b. information c.
R(A)~(E)WI*I$orat LTi
(5) circumstances
a. amount
^ 2 T
(A) individual species
a. special properties b. distinct types
(B) considered remarkable in their own right
a. marked especially by themselves
c. seen as exceptional on their own
(C) based on much of what he discovered
a. built with a lot of tools he created
c. made out of many plans he designed
situation d. future
a~d;4Å‚P> 1
c. different features d. original sets
b. noticed differently in their own way
d. regarded as possible themselves
b. explained by a lot of ideas he recalled
d. drawn from many things he learned
(D) how those
a. a way by which these changes measure
b. the manner by which such changes respond to
c. the way in which such changes result in
d. a path on which these changes involve
(E) increase its chances of
a. improve its prospects for b. include the possibility of
c. involve the probability of d. engage its intentions for
1. What did Darwin believe about the finches of the Galapagos Islands?
a. Different beaks helped them live in different environments.
b. They had developed from thirteen different ancestors.
c. Each bird had evolved characteristics for the main island.
d. The different beaks worked best for eating fruit.
2. What was true about the birds with longer and thinner beaks?
a. They stopped reproducing entirely.
b. They were better at catching bugs.
c. They had stronger beaks than all other finches.
d. They arrived in the Galapagos chain in the 1830s.
3. Eventually, what happened to the finches with beaks that were not suited to the island they
living on?
a. They ceased to exist.
b. They survived because of their effective beaks.
c. They changed their food supply.
d. They found their common ancestor.
4. What does "natural selection" refer to?
a. It is the process that Darwin developed to explain birds.
b. It refers to the characteristics of animal food supplies.
c. It explains the way in which species change.
• eStt2017^H*^AaFp1SEIÅ_
67
WWII* •
d. It means the same thing as evolution.
5. What does the passage suggest about human evolution?
a. Human evolution is similar to bird evolution, but natural selection only works for birds.
b. Humans have physical features that have helped them survive over time.
c. Over time, humans have lost their chance to reproduce naturally.
d. Darwin's theory of evolution does not apply to humans.
1 M 5 ) a~dJ&Å‚f>
It is becoming more and more difficult for workers to switch off from work. ( 1 ), many workers answer
or write e-mails on the train to and from work, during lunchtime, and at home after work. ( 2 ), many
people even check their work e-mail when they go on vacation to other countries. ( 3 ), this might be
changing. A German car manufacturer is giving its workers the choice not to receive e-mail when they
are on holiday. This will mean employees will be able to relax on the beach ( 4 ) dealing with work
problems. Employees can choose to automatically remove all work e-mail while on vacation.
Their system is called "Mail on Holiday." The sender gets a reply that says: "I'm using "Mail on
Holiday," so your e-mails will be removed. If you want me to read this e-mail personally, please be kind
enough to send me the information again." Not everyone thinks the system is a good idea, ( 5 ).
Some customers may not like receiving a message telling them to
lose business.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
On the other hand
In addition
Naturally
long after
at least
b. For example
b
b
b
b
In contrast
Similarly
while also
too
write again later, and companies could
c
c
c
c
c
Still
In other words
Moreover
instead of
in comparison
d.
d.
d.
d.
d.
Yet
In brief
However
in spite of
though
x, am-as. iu*-<v? .mm
60
p.21
(7) I just heard someone my name.
call 2. called 3. calls 4. to be a
W) Since she has a big test Friday, Wendy has been doing
1
(9) Ted's dancing skill is exceptionally superior
1
w
1
w
1
(ii)
1
(*)
1
anything
:d's danci
as
;cause sh
laid
2. everything
2. lain
Because she was tired, Jane
2. of
3. nothing
others'.
3. than
down to take a nap.
3. lay
3. repairing
hour for a bi
3. only
VISITOR:
GUIDE:
deep
(?) I would
1
M A:
How
can this submarine go underwater?
but studying all week.
4. something
to

lied
3. long
I should apply to this school or not?
3. whether
shallow
why
to repair
rather
2
4
Who do you think
Who you think
than a million dollars.
4. not more
About 1,000 meters.
2. farther
Could you advise me about
that
We're having our car
repair
2. what
this week.
2. repaired
o kilometers
2. never
walk two kilometers than wait an hour for a bus.
2. at least
1. frequently
will win the annual best album award?
B: The Bangles, for
Do you think who
3. Who will you think
(3) What a huge house they have! It must be worth
any more
3. no less
A lk<n(7)~(*)<iZXtiZ>jcb LT, SWKii, -I1L/HÅíx.t
"^i" hjQ
lEXtt 2017 ASSIES? •

68
A: ( T )
B: Why are you suddenly interested in drawing?
A: Weil, I'm making a game with my friend, and I'm responsible for designing the characters.
B: Really?
A: ( -f )
B: Is it easy to use? ( 5 )
A: I thought so, too, but with this software, you can make any character you draw 3D!
B: Wow. That sounds cool. (
X
)
A: That's right. Some people are already doing that. ( t )
B: I see.
A: And, that's what I'm working on. In the future, we hope to start up our own company.
B: Oh, so you want to be an entrepreneur? Good for you.
imsm
1. How can I improve my drawing skills?
2. How much does the software cost?
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
I thought only professional game designers could do that.
It doesn't come with a free tutorial.
It's quite popular among people who aren't happy with the games on the market.
My favorite game is Super Bean Bashers.
So, you can use your characters in games?
Yeah, I'm using this great software that lets you create your own characters.
B acwfoWaKcAiiSAfcLT, SiKRfi, -Himt^.
A: (__Åí_)
B: Really? I haven't noticed.
A: (  ) I heard this new one sells locally-grown fruit and vegetables that are fresh and
reasonably priced.
B: It seems convenience stores nowadays are competing with each other to offer healthier bentos
and other ready-to-eat meals.
A: ( Åí ) More women are too.
B: Is that so? That would explain why they seem to be carrying a wider variety of everyday
products these days. You can buy all sorts of daily necessities, health and beauty products, even
office supplies.
A: Yes, they're really handy. Times are changing, and convenience stores have to change with the
times. ( *r_ ) Many stores even have eat-in areas for them to gather to chat, and the
staff is always friendly and helpful.
B: (
n
)
A: No, they're not. It seems some people can't live without them.
[Å·Å·]
1. At many, you can drop off packages or luggage for delivery.
2. Can I use my credit card?
3. Do they have ATMs?
4. Have you seen there's another new convenience store on the main road?
5. I guess they aren't places to just grab a quick snack and run anymore.
6. It's the third one that's been built around here this year.
7. That's because more and more elderly people are doing their shopping there.
8. They are becoming social meeting spots for the elderly people as well.
Å· (7)~(a)KXtiZ>mfeMS4 & c*aÅ·BWÅ‚bMV'%Åí v>0
U The survival of the human race faces many ( T ). In the short term, the planet we live on is
under threat. If we hope to inhabit Earth for a long time into the future, we must find a way to combat
the immediate problems of global warming and overpopulation. Overcoming these problems will ( -i )
the health of our planet and all the life on it, not just humans. But, even if we manage to do this, life
will eventually no longer be possible here.
It is estimated that the sun, which provides the energy ( ) for life, will last another five billion
years. After that, it will begin to expand, and Earth will become too hot to support life as we know it.
( z. ), if humans want to survive forever, we must find another planet to colonize. Partly with this
reality in mind and partly out of genuine curiosity about the universe, astronomers are searching for
planets outside of our solar system. So far, they have found around 2,000 exoplanets Å\ planets that
orbit stars other than our own sun.
Finding exoplanets is only part of the challenge since obviously not all planets support life. Scientists
have determined that any planet we hope to colonize must be within the so-called habitable zone around
• EXtt 2017 :ÅíllÅ}#AHFp1ffiIEgÅ_
-69-


if
its parent star. The habitable zone is the ( % ) around a star where the temperature is neither too hot
nor too cold.
We are looking for stars that are of similar size to our own sun, and planets that are roughly the same
size as Earth. Astronomers have ( ii ) that there could be 40 billion Earth-sized planets orbiting Sun-
like stars in our own galaxy alone. In July 2015, they found the best potential candidate yet Å\ a planet
named Kepler 452b. What makes Kepler 452b so ( ) is that it is nearly the same size as Earth and
orbits its sun at almost the same distance. In fact, a year on Kepler 452b would be only 20 days longer
than an Earth year.
Of course, there are still many questions we need to answer about Kepler 452b. Is it mostly ( 9 ), like
Earth, or is it mostly gas? What is its atmosphere like? Is there liquid water on its surface? But the biggest
question is, "How can we get there?" Whether or not Kepler 452b is capable of supporting ( ), it is
extremely far away, and we don't have the technology to get to it. Located 1,400 light years from Earth,
it would take our most modern space probes more than 20 million years to reach Kepler 452b.
Fortunately, if we can solve our more immediate problems on Earth, we will have a lot of time to continue
exploring the universe and developing the means to ( ^ ) humans even further into space someday.












KB SfcfcMaSriELC#^
^0^5#iK<4feoo#^4aof4rSvÅ‚0 tztiL, iUi* < i t> <D fe*:S3=-e*nT*>Å‚)
f1"o ffc, i&g&n f fo
f Å\ 9 <DXft &WtAXv>tztzIttz b & v> Å°X~t o
I would
appreciate
input
xkfÅ\f-oM
I 
down
professor
could
it
7
show me
(4)
2. during
6. said
No
always
matter
the data.
4
8
if
you
speech in my notebook.
3. everything
7. the

work out.
don't
things
M 3 i:v^0
1
5
(*)

1
5
daughter
left
2
from
6. my
r -f Å\ (CjfcT < fiZ> b%K^MLtzo
She  
5
come
that
2
6
me
the
3
7
3
7
hard
try
ill
the
the front row.
party.
3. promised
7. to
her
wrote
4
8
4
8
how
you
is
the third
she
would

(T) Marie Kondo is an organizing consultant and , author. Her book, The Life-Changing Magic of
Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing, ,describes a method of organizing
based on the 3 traditional Japanese mentality that people should treat things with respect. In it she
claims that people can change their lives by iwaking up. Her book has 5sold millions of copies
worldwide. In 2015, she was chosen as one of the world's most influential Kpeople by Time magazine.
M) France is known for the long crusty baguette and has more bread bakers than any other , country in
Europe. Yet, sales of pre-cut bread for toast or sandwiches are rising. Last year, sales of Harry's, the
pleading sliced-bread brand, were up by 25% since 2007. Why have sales increased? Mainly because
iEXtt 2017 ^H^AHFrSMIES! •
• hs* (23 i a mm)
70
it stays 3hot longer. Sliced bread can last for days, whereas a freshly baked baguette is best eaten
within hours of coming out of the 4oven. Many women in France today are too ?busy to pick up a
baguette every day because they work full-time. Also, lunchtime habits are changing. Many French
now take as little as 15 minutes to eat lunch, so sandwich consumption is on the 6rise. Another answer
is Harry's "American" sliced bread without crust is heavily advertised on television to children.
(Å°Å‚ Wireless charging is a recent technology that allows a wide range of , solar powered machines,
including electric cars, to be 2charged without using any cords. This technology has been used in
South Korea since 2013 to power buses for public transportation and will soon be , tested in the
United Kingdom for electric passenger vehicles. What is special about both of these cases is that the
charging ,, technology is embedded in the roads, so electric vehicles can be charged while driving. One
advantage of this method of charging
made smaller, reducing the
charging is that 5 batteries do not need to store as much power and can be
cost of producing electric vehicles. Also, as they are constantly being
charged while in cmotion, the driving range of electric vehicles is potentially limitless.
(j-) In , strength training, exercises are classified as isolation exercises or compound exercises. Isolation
exercises work one specific muscle. Curling a dumbbell, which only works the bicep ,, muscle, is an
example of an isolation exercise. Compound exercises, on the other hand, use several different
muscles at the same time and are the most effective exercises for increasing strength. A good 3gym
will have both isolation and compound exercises. There are 4 three especially effective compound
exercises. First is the bench press, which works many muscles in the chest, arms, and shoulders. Next,
your workout routine shouldinclude squats. Squats use most leg muscles and also exercise muscles in
the lower back. Finally, the most effective compound exercise is the deadlift. Deadlifts work almost
all 6major muscle groups, including legs, upper and lower back, arms, and shoulders.
W Do cats and dogs have blood types just like humans? Yes, they do, though they are categorized
, differently. Cats have A, B, and AB, but they are not the same as humans'. ,Dogs, on the other
hand, are quite different. They have eight major blood types, labeled as DEA (dog erythrocyte
antigen) 1 to 8. Why is it ,important to know what blood type a person or an animal has? It is
because, when a blood 4test is necessary, a different type of blood may cause a serious and sometimes
fatal reaction. However, unlike humans and most animals, dogs don't have naturally-occurring
antibodies against different blood types, and they can receive any 5type of blood if it is their first
transfusion. Once a different type of blood is given, the recipient dog c develops antibodies against the
donated blood type, so this type of blood shouldn't be used for a second transfusion.
X • 8ÅíiS • • RfltiBi • Å·S1Wg xuss
90 ft
p.21
L

David, an exchange student in Japan, meets Keisuke on a train platform on their zvay to a
soccer game. They are members of the same team.
David: Hi, Keisuke. Good to see you again.
Keisuke: You too, David. Are you ready for the game?
David: Sure! I'm feeling pretty good. How was last week's game?
Keisuke: (1)  We lost badly. I think the score was about 7-1. We could have used
you on defense. Where were you, anyway?
David: My parents were over here for a visit. I showed them around Kyoto last weekend.
Keisuke: Oh, I see. (2) 
David: Yes. My father had always been too busy with his work until this year.
Keisuke: (3) 
David: He's an architect. He designs houses mostly, but he's done a couple of small hotels, too.
Keisuke:
David:
That sounds like an interesting job. (4) 
You can say that again! He took hundreds of photos. He said he wants to try using some
ideas from machine design in his own work.
Keisuke: No kidding! It sounds like he had a good time. How about your mother? Did she enjoy
herself?
David:   I've never seen anyone eat so much sushi!
• ffiXtt 2017
-71-

Keisuke: Wow! Maybe you'll be seeing them again soon.
(1) A.
(2) A.
C.
(3) A.
C.
(4) A.
B.
C.
D.
(5) A.
C.
I'm not sure. B. Don't even ask.
Was it their first visit to Japan?
Did they go to Kyoto?
What happened?
Did he wait that long?
I've never met an architect in my whole life.
Did he design some of the buildings in Kyotc
c
B
D
B
D
Not at all.
Do they like
Do they oft<
Why this ye
What does
I guess he was impressed by some of the buildings in Kyoto.
Actually, I dreamed of becoming an architect as a kid.
I'm afraid not.
She almost did.
B. TOi^A Å\ Ffi, Å\owi h i fy 7Åí,

She was k
Yes, she $
h^i^3CA~F(Å}, -offli 6 ^ "7 <Åã*
f-fo fc/iL, >^7 9'7~y t~t0 A C^ttT B~F ÅíH:^";N
co(l)~(6)lc^T(ii^> tC'L, Stfifak
?Åí-<?Åí>& 4ffl)i:oi>tlÅ}, ZÅí*il&Åí</>0 • ^ ^ ^ (Ti
l) AO&H< hho (2) B<7)&ic<-5 i < h *>J d v?ithÅã^
4) DCD&H<&4)W (5) E <Åí>&{:: < Åí ^(7) to 3a?aia'essiorvs o^1-
A. Every year, travelers from diverse cultural backgrounds mak|SÅ_tWe *tn" japan'
doubt the majority of them eventually leave the country witlpvethe^06 esSed hy
First, it is hard to imagine that any visitor would be unimpresse to he 1
B. In short, whatever their expectations, visitors to Japan t*aV
convenience, sights, and restaurants. Dr StfÅ_ooth, ^QtiaÅ_ atvi the
C. In addition, the excellence of the public transport systerr.e theThe rafrge_

A r ~j 'g Å_J Å‚• *" J
within and between cities. For sightseers, Japan is a stimulati range a
modern.    . .
D. After a day of sightseeing, dinner at a Japanese restaurar satÅ_sfted> ^ ate aVways
quality of dishes to choose from ensures that customers leav? tog1R n
a humble neighborhood establishment or a more fashionab]6' 'Å_abte withh1
fresh, and chefs take pride in their craft. panting is avaÅ_ Tange
E. In urban areas, almost any basic product that one couSine a^g0 stock a xV1
walking distance at any time. Not only are stores numei^e^ , night!
goods than found in most counterparts abroad. can be iohowea > -on
F. Peaceful strolls around tranquil temples and shrines durhe ^aX hiking rera0*e
exploring lively, colorful entertainment districts. Nature lo'Can en3ÅãX
such as the Kh Peninsula or Å° 7i*"""""" """"ci
A- ( 1 ')~r r neÅãce^he maJes,v of Hokio's lakes by canoe. ^^xfts.

'nvejltori anaisiness people, tot th= Å· Åã'J
remaining unknown naJ L y were tJle brave m and women who explored the last
Antarctica, ">Å·*% the Sou^. At the start of the 20th century,
to the Pole" for his countrv tL Å_ l W3S Sti]1 a mvsteiy. Eery explorer wanted to be the
The first person to try was anlneShJ, p'? ^ the vemottom of tie earth, was on^
Australia and pushed for the Pole onlf t ^ ert Scott, in 1<01. Scotr and hi>
the members of Scott's party was sent S ^^ 700 km oÅí thÅ‚r &*1 Åím6St S:'acklet0n' Åã
on h.s own in i907 as the head of tt 1Åã^ A } "ln^ Aft^ ^ ^Å·ered, Shack,,-ion returnee
made it to within only 150 km nf thl oi1"? nÅíarctlc Expedition. Shackleton and a team of three
return safely, ( 2 ) they turned back.
In 1911, Scott returned to Antarctica for a second attempt at the South Pole. Scott was not the onl
one with the Pole in his sights. The Norwegian explorer Amundsen was also heading there. He wa
traveHn^LTrnnHv1"1611'?' h3Vmg ( 3 } the native Peoples of the far north how to survive an
the distance from Srntf^ri tÅã g6t *1Åã ^ ^out^ Po^e' Amundsen and Scott would have to travel rough]
t0 nÅãrthern SPain' more than 1,400 km, but in freezing cold conditions ar
The Norwegians used husky dogs to pull sleds that carried supplies. Scott, on the other an , us<
ponies (small horses) as well as dogs, yet the ponies could not function in the snow and eventua
( 4 ) useless. Scott also refused to see the usefulness in wearing fur clothing. Fifty-seven days aft
they started out, Amundsen's team of four reached the South Pole on the 14th of December 191
However, only 18 of the original 97 dogs made it: throughout the trip, the meat of the weak dog'
is w;
R3?ti2017-Åí/5"
A|uo
dn
jraipo aqi
Suiq}Aire op
JPI
SB noos SE
pgnnijuoD
JI
Å°a
'a
•a
a
'a
(i
•(i
(I
SI6T 3

•sauo Suojis sq} 0} sSop >jb3/a aq; jo paui aq} 8uiaiÅò •Åí
Å°s3uo Åòuoj}s aq} 0} sSop >]B9AV aq} joj pooj aq} SumS
TT6T 9
•Åí061 ^
in SBM 3l0d qjnos aip ipsai o; ajnirej puooas S^OW^S
MS gl'c-i-cÅ\ 9 3 •
}Bqi '3
pUE 3
9UIBS ai[) "3
AeaÅ_e uru "3
pajaAoosxp 3
3.iojaq '3
9UlK33q '^1
sv
v % 09 ? $ ? tfa i <?
AV9J
JOJ
-IE 9II 91J1
J[DBq 3UI03
pgumsiioo
•I91JB
ueSgq
JOJ
•g
•g
Å°g
g
'H
'a
•g
•a
9>t!t
}nq
Slip
dpq jag
pajeaio
W3UI0UI 01]j
paddojs
Me5*(2/HHKJ6)

ft
-73-
C. giving seal meat to both the weak and strong dogs.
(3) Of the three people who tried to reach the South Pole,
A. Scott and Shackleton reached it, but Amundsen did not.
B. Amundsen and Scott reached it, but Shackleton did not.
C. Amundsen and Shackleton reached it, but Scott did not.
(4) Of the three people who tried to reach the South Pole,
A. Scott and Shackleton returned safely, but Amundsen did not.
B. Amundsen and Scott returned safely, but Shackleton did not.
C. Amundsen and Shackleton returned safely, but Scott did not.
(5) The Endurance became trapped in the sea ice during Shackleton's expedition to
A. reach the South Pole again.
B. go across Antarctica.
C. sail to South Georgia Island.
(6) Shackleton's story is fantastic because
A. he faced so many dangers in order to save his men.
B. he made it to the South Pole after repeated attempts.
C. his men had to live on seal meat in order to survive.
(7) Shackleton did not become famous until
A. Scott became famous.
B. soon after the First World War.
C. Ions after his death.
long after his death.
A.
You are on your way to a concert. At an intersection, you encounter a group of people, all staring at
the sky. Without even thinking about @it, you look upwards, too. Why? Social proof. In the middle
of the concert, when the soloist is giving an excellent performance, someone begins to clap and
suddenly ?the whole room joins in. You do, too. Why? Social proof. After the concert you go to the
coat check to pick up your coat. You watch how the people in front of you place a coin on a plate,
even though, officially, the service is included in the ticket price. What do you do? You probably leave
a coin as well. Why? Social proof.
Social proof, sometimes roughly termed the herd instinct, dictates that individuals feel they are
behaving correctly when they act the same as other people. In other words, if a large number of
people follow a certain idea, others will find this idea truer or better. And ^the more people who
display a certain behavior, the more appropriate others will judge it. This is, of course, ridiculous.
Social proof is the evil behind economic bubbles and stock market panic. It exists in fashion,
management techniques, hobbies, religion and diets. In some cases, it can even negatively affect whole
cultures.
A simple experiment carried out in the 1950s by legendary psychologist Solomon Asch shows how
common sense is influenced by peer pressure, the tendency to want to act the same as the members of
one's social group. In Asch's experiment, a research participant is shown a line drawn on paper, and
next to it three lines Å\ numbered 1, 2 and 3 Å\ one shorter, one longer and one of the same length as
the original one. The participant must indicate which of the three lines mcorresponds to the original
one. If that participant is alone in the room, he gives correct answers Å\ unsurprising, because the task
is really quite simple. Now five other people enter the room; they are all actors, a fact that the
participant does not know. One after another, they give wrong answers, saying "number 1," although
it's very clear that number 3 is the correct answer. Then it is the participant's turn again. In one third
of cases, ^,he will answer incorrectly to match the other people's responses.
Why do we act like this? In the past, following others was a good survival strategy. Suppose that
50,000 years ago, you were travelling in the wild with your hunter-gatherer friends, and suddenly they
all fled at the sight of an animal. What would you have done? Would you have remained still,
wondering about what you were looking at? Was it a lion, or something that just looked like a lion but
was in fact a harmless animal? No, you would have followed your friends. Later on, when you were
safe, you could have reflected on what the "lion" had actually been. Those who acted differently from
the group ^did not pass their genes on to the later generations. We are directly descended from those
who copied the others' behavior. This pattern is so deeply rooted in us that we still use it today, even
when it offers no survival advantage, which is most of the time. mOnly a few cases come to mind
where social proof is of value. For example, if you find yourself hungry in a foreign city and don't
know a good restaurant, it makes sense to pick the one that's full of local people. In other words, you
copy the local people's behavior.
Comedy and talk shows make use of social proof by inserting sounds of people laughing at key
7 •

-74-
moments, encouraging the audience to laugh along. One of the most impressive, though troubling,
cases of this phenomenon is the famous speech by Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels,
delivered to a large audience in 1943. As the war went from bad to worse for Germany, he asked the
crowd: "Do you want total war? If necessary, do you want a war more total and radical than anything
that we can even imagine today?" The crowd responded very loudly and enthusiastically, "Yes!" If
the people had been asked individually and anonymously, it is likely that nobody would have
consented to ^this crazy proposal.
The advertising industry benefits greatly from our weakness for social proof. This works well when
^ a situation is unclear Å\ such as deciding among various car makes, cleaning products, beauty products,
etc. with no obvious advantages or disadvantages Å\ and where people "like you and me
appear.
So, don't trust a company's advertisement which claims its product is better because it is "the most
popular." mHow is a product better simply because it sells the most units? And remember novelist
W. Somerset Maugham's wise words: "Even if 50 million people say something foolish, it is still
foolish."
A. the group of people B. the sky
(2)
C. what you are doing
A. More people enter the hall.
B. Many people join the performance.
C. All the people clap their hands.
(3)
A. People tend to praise others.
B. People tend to imitate others.
C. People tend to ignore others.
(4)
A. is equal to B. is transformed by C. is apart from
(5) h i> <n (i
A. He will be unable to give the same answers as the other people did.
B. He will give the wrong answer because the other people did.
C. He will struggle with the same questions the others struggled with.
(6) h % <n a t'tifro
A. did not tell their children about it
B. did not give information about their children
C. did not survive and have children
(7)
A. One can only think of a few examples of social proof being useful.
B. People seldom care whether or not social proof is useful.
C. There are only a few locations where social proof is useful.
(8) & i> CO(4 t'tlfro
A. a war more total and radical than ever
B. the famous speech by Joseph Goebbels
C. being asked individually and anonymously
(9) *> coii Ztifr0
A. The color of the product is not clear.
B. The language of the advertisement is not clear.
C. The difference between the products is not clear.
A.
B.
C.

The products that sell the most are not necessarily the most popular.
A product is not necessarily good just because it is the most popular.
It is not necessarily good to make simple products and sell them.
(l) The author used the first paragraph to show
(2)
(3)
A.
B.
C.
A.
B.
C.
that social proof is often seen at concerts.
what kind of behavior is considered to be social proof.
how following the rules of social proof makes people good citizens.
le second paragraph, starting "Social proof, sometimes," makes the
people have no choice but to follow an idea if many others do.
an idea is probably better if more people believe it is.
social proof may have a negative effect on people and society.
The second paragraph, starting "Social proof, sometimes," makes the point that
According to the third paragraph, starting "A simple experiment," research has shown that people
• eSti2017^H*^AMF=raHÅ‚
-75-
MR* (2Åí1H RSI) (2M 30 mm.)
A. sometimes change their answers in order to agree with others.
B. find it harder to answer problems correctly when they are alone.
C. in groups deliberately enjoy giving wrong answers to researchers.
(4) According to the fourth paragraph, starting "Why do we," the habit of following the behavior of
other people
A. started because of the danger of living near lions.
B. has been a human characteristic for a long time.
C. has no useful purpose in the world we live in.
(5) The fifth paragraph, starting "Comedy and talk," suggests that
A. speaking in a loud voice is a good way to use social proof.
B. Joseph Goebbels ignored social proof in order to promote war.
C. social proof worked in favor of Nazi propaganda.
(6) In the final two paragraphs, the writer suggests that
(7)
A.
B.
C.
A.
B.
C.
people are more likely to buy products they think are popular,
advertisers don't find social proof useful for selling certain products,
using famous people in advertisements is a good way to sell products.
The main idea of the whole passage is that
social proof is an important instinct that helps people live safely,
people are too often influenced by other people's behavior.
people can succeed in business by using ideas based on social proof.
IS • jÅòi • EfcMJis • 91I3RI • AHHilg 2 a 3 amm
90 ft
p.22
L
OA. xtl&<0 Åí -Ztl^tl A~D fr O-f Å°og^ Åí V>,
Ned, an exchange student in Japan, is talking with Sho in the school cafeteria.
Ned: Hi, Sho. How's it going?
Sho: Oh, pretty well. Just one more week and the semester is finished. And I'm doing okay in all my
classes.
Ned: (1)  You know you are doing better than just "okay." You always get the
highest scores. But why do you work so hard?
Sho: Well, I take school pretty seriously. My parents are Chinese, and they had a hard time when
they first came to Japan.
Ned: You're Chinese? I didn't know that. {2) 
Sho: I'm not from China. My parents are. They are from Shanghai, but I was born and raised in
Japan.
Ned: Really? (3) 
Sho: For me, OK. But my parents had problems at first, because they didn't have much money. Then
they started their own business and began to do well. In my case, I'm more fluent in Japanese
than in my parents' language.
Ned: Oh, but you know Chinese as well, don't you?
Sho: Yeah. I can speak it quite well, but I can read Japanese more easily. And Japan is my home. It
Ned:

Sho:
(1) A.
(2) A.
C.
(3) A.
C.
(4) A.
C.
(5) A.
C.
is the only place I've ever lived. Does that make me Japanese, too?
Maybe. (4)
I didn't know you were Chinese until you told me so. Maybe that
is why we get along so well. We both have strong connections to two cultures, don't we?
Interesting. {5)  But it's possible. Our experience with different cultures gives
us something in common.
Look out! B. I've got it!
Have you been to China?
Where are you from in China?
What was that like?
Is Shanghai a good place?
You should ask a teacher.
You ask a lot of questions.
I've often thought so, too.
You always say that.
B. tcoH:ÅíA~FSÅ},
c.
B.
D.
B.
D.
B.
D.
B.
D.
Come on!
Do you like China?
D. That's good!
What dialect do you speak?
Do they like Japan?
Why did they come to Japan?
You certainly seem Japanese.
You can't have two nationalities.
You know a lot about it.
That never occurred to me.

•C-fo fztz L, A B ~ F ÅíIE L < *<DÅ}T?, &
GSftt 2017 •
MS* (2/13 BUSS)
-76-
<0(i)~(6HcSTtiÅí& fztz L,
fÅí-C"Åí>& 0)(COV^T(Å},

A<WklZ<
DO&(C< &i>CD
A. In medieval Europe, rural
(2)
(5)
arti Åí Åí Åí>&v> >{> <D (-Zintf/* y y 7 <DM
B coikiz < 1,4c
E<vmz< h%<n
(3) CÅ·&1C< S&GD
(6)
life was governed by a system called "feudalism." In a feudal society,
the king granted large pieces of land to noblemen and bishops. Peasants without land did most of
the work.
B. As a result, more and more people moved to towns and cities. Meanwhile, Christian conquests
had expanded trade routes to the East and given Europeans a taste for imported goods such as
wine, olive oil, and expensive textiles.
C. Thus, urban culture spread and a new era was born: the Renaissance. The Renaissance was a
time of great intellectual and economic change, but it was not a complete change: It had its roots
in the world of the Middle Ages.
D. During the 11th century, however, feudal life began to change. Agricultural innovations such as
the heavy plow and three-field crop rotation made farming productive, so fewer farm workers were
needed Å\ but thanks to the expanded and improved food supply, the population grew.
E. They planted and harvested crops and gave most of the produce to the landowner. In exchange
for their labor, they were allowed to live on the land. They were also promised protection in case
of enemy invasion.
F. Economic expansion led to port cities becoming larger and larger. Eventually, there were some
15 cities in Europe with a population of more than 50,000.
2
A. fc<r>3tk1C<Og.ffi ( 1 M 15 )
^"*0
Six thousand miles from the US lies a country whose flag bears a striking resemblance to the
American one: alternating red and white horizontal stripes and, in the upper left-hand corner, a dark
blue square. Against this blue background is a lone white star Å\ the star of liberty. The flag is a
symbol of the history of the Liberian state, its relationship with America, and its search for its own
identity.
Liberia is a country of 43,000 square miles in West Africa ( 1 ) on the southwest by the Atlantic
Ocean. From ancient times through the 1700s, many ethnic groups from the surrounding regions
settled in the area, making Liberia one of Africa's most culturally rich and ( 2 ) countries. Settled in
the early 1800s by former slaves and freeborn Blacks from America, Liberia, whose name means
"land of freedom," has always struggled with its double cultural heritage: that of the settlers and that
of the native people.
In 1816, a group of Christians called the Quakers, and slave owners in Washington, D.C., formed the
American Colonization Society (ACS). The Quakers opposed slavery, and the slave owners opposed
the freedom of Blacks, but they agreed on one thing: Black Americans should be sent back to Africa.
The Quakers felt that freeborn Blacks and former slaves would ( 3 ) better chances for freedom in
Africa than in the US. They also saw sending Blacks to Africa as a way of spreading Christianity
through Africa. The slaveholders' motives were less noble: They viewed the sending of Blacks back to
Africa as a way of preventing slaves from rebelling.
Despite opposition from many Blacks and from white people who wanted to end slavery in
America, the program to send Blacks to Africa ( 4 ). In 1822, the first 86 Black Americans landed
on Cape Montserrado. They arrived with white agents of the ACS who would govern them for many
years. Many others followed, settling on land sometimes purchased, sometimes obtained more ( 5 ),
from native chiefs. The first years were a challenge: The settlers suffered from malaria and yellow
fever, which were common diseases in the area's coastal plains, and from attacks by the native
populations. The natives were unhappy with the ( 6 ) of the settlements along the coast, with the
settlers' efforts to put an end to the profitable slave trading in which some ethnic groups were engaged,
and with the settlers' attempts to spread Christianity in their communities. Despite these difficulties,
the Black settlers were ( 7 ) to show the world that they could create, develop, and run their own
country. And so they kept arriving.
In 1824, the area became known as Liberia. Over the next 40 years, 19,000 African Americans
settled in Liberia, along with some 5,000 Africans saved from slave ships, and a small number of West
Indian immigrants. The settlers recreated American society, building churches and homes that ( 8 )
Southern US plantations. And they continued to speak English. They also entered into a complex
relationship with the native people Å\ marrying them in some cases, discriminating against them in
others, but all the time attempting to westernize the traditional communities. After Liberia declared
its independence in 1847, Joseph J. Roberts, a freeborn Black from America was ( 9 ) Liberia's first
president. It had taken fewer than 25 years for the Blacks from America to begin to govern their own,
• EXti2017Å}S*Å_AliraSjEÅ‚
-77-
HB*(2J13H3tJfe)
free country. Roberts and his senators, all American-born, resolved to create a country ( 10 ) the
principles of justice and equal rights.
The settlers built schools and a university, and during the early years, agriculture, shipbuilding, and
trade greatly developed. Yet, as Liberia expanded its borders, a government of Blacks from America
located largely on the coast attempted to establish control over a growing native population located
largely in the interior. Over the next few decades, growing economic difficulties began to weaken the
state's ( 11 ) over the coastal native population. When the financially burdened ACS withdrew its
support, conditions worsened as Liberia tried to modernize its largely agricultural economy. The cost
of imports was far greater than the income ( 12 ) by exports of coffee, rice, palm oil, and timber.
Liberia was also struggling under the burden of heavy loans, primarily from Britain. By 1909, the
government had no money left and was forced to borrow further from the US.
To bring in more income, the Liberian state leased large areas of land to private American
companies. The terms of the leases were strongly in favor of the companies. In 1930, the League of
Nations ( 13 ) these companies of engaging in "forced labor," which turned out to be true. The
government collapsed, and the new president dealt with the increasing frustration among his people by
( 14 ) harsh laws.
Despite its political, economic, and social troubles, Liberia, as the only free country in Africa, was a
model for other African countries struggling to achieve independence. William V. S. Tubman, president
since 1944, further highlighted the country's world profile by traveling abroad and allowing international
investment in Liberia. With this investment and the income from newly discovered mineral deposits,
he modernized parts of Liberia and built schools, roads, and hospitals. Tubman also expanded the
incorporation of local populations into the social and economic mainstream, ( 15 ) them, for example,
the right to vote. Under Tubman, Liberia was a founding member of the United Nations as well as of
the Organization of African Unity, and he supported the independence of other African states.
(1) A.
(2) A.
(3) A.
(4) A.
(5) A.
(6) A.
(7) A.
(8) A.
(9) A.
(10) A.
(11) A.
(12) A.
(13) A.
(14) A.
(15) A.
stopped
various
stand
took away
forcefully
definition
directed
related
adapted
based on
publicity
generated
admitted
carrying
posting
B
B
B
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
B.
constructed
blended
avoid
moved forward
heavily
expansion
accustomed
resembled
celebrated
looking into
mentality
grown
argued
bringing
benefiting
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
c.
bordered
diverse
give
put through
strongly
application
respected
relocated
rewarded
pointing out
superiority
taken
accepted
attaching
granting
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
attended
multiple
like
set out
hardly
attachment
determined
reminded
elected
made by
majority
developed
accused
introducing
investing
B. ofoMiSv^
(1) According to the writer, the fact that Liberia was settled by people from different backgrounds
A. helped it to become wealthy and prosperous.
B. made it less free than other African societies.
C. caused confusion about the national identity.
(2) Quakers in the ACS wanted to send Blacks to Africa because they thought
A. it would help promote their religious views abroad.
B. they would prefer living with people of the same color.
C. Black Americans would stop causing trouble in the US.
(3) The first Black American settlers to arrive in Africa were unpopular with some local people
because
A. they brought unpleasant illnesses with them from the US.
B. they wanted to end the slavery business.
C. they refused to consider building any new towns.
(4) After the country became known as Liberia, African Americans decided to
A. develop a society like that of the US.
B. move the local people off their farms.
C. encourage locals to keep their own customs.
(5) At the time that Liberia became an independent country, its government
A. contained members from all sections of society.
B. promised to protect the rights of all Liberians.
ESCti 2017 ÅíH*Å_AiÅíR3aiE8Å_ •
MS* <2R 3 BSHfe)
-78-
C. placed more importance on the economy than education.
(6) By the early 20th century, Liberia was in deep financial trouble because
A. its exports were worth much less than the amount it spent on imports.
B. people with non-American backgrounds were opposing the government.
C. it had sent too much money abroad, especially to Britain.
(7) Liberia was able to recover from its economic problems because President Tubman
A. made tough new laws to deal with protesters.
B. was admired by all the other African countries.
C. allowed foreign companies to do business in Liberia.


Climate change isn't new. Our planet is always changing and its environment rarely stays still for
long. There have been times in the distant past when levels of CO2 were much higher than they are
today, and Antarctica, a continent around the South Pole, was a tropical paradise. There have been
others when CO2 levels were much lower, and there was even ice in what are now tropical areas. But
over the past ten thousand years the Earth's climate has been unusually steady. We humans have
become used to a world where the temperature hasn't changed much. In other words, we have been
lucky. Now our steady reliable climate is changing, and this time nature isn't to blame. But how do
we know for certain that the world is warming?
When you're trying to determine whether the world's temperature is rising, the biggest problem is
^picking out a signal from the "background noise." Even in our relatively stable times, temperatures
move up and down from one day to another, from season to season, from year to year, and from place
to place. To be sure that the trend is occurring, you need to take precise measurements from many
different places around the world, and do so for an extremely long time. The world's longest survey is
the Central England Temperature Record, which is a result of the serious data-collecting habits of
seventeenth-century British natural scientists. It covers a large region of England and stretches back to
1659. ^The impressive record shows clear signs of warming, especially toward the end of the
twentieth century.
However, the record covers only a tiny part of the globe. Changes in England don't necessarily
reflect changes in the United States or Brazil. It also doesn't go back far enough to reveal just how
unusual our recent warm temperatures really are. How do they compare, for instance, to @the
apparent warm period in medieval times when grapes were grown in northern England? Or to the so-
called Little Ice Age several hundred years ago, when the River Thames in London froze over
completely so that people could gather and sell things on its solid surface? To answer these questions,
scientists have ^ come up with clever ways to expand the records geographically and extend them
backward in time. These records are written not by humans, but by nature.
Every year, the average tree grows a ring of new wood around its trunk. In a good year the ring will
be thicker, in a bad year, thinner. Researchers drill a small core into the side of the tree, about the size
of a wine cork, take out the wood, and then count and measure. By examining trees that are different
ages, cthey have been able to create a temperature record extending more than a thousand years and
from regions across northern Europe, Russia, and North America.
In the frozen north and south, ice also contains a record book of past climate. ^Each year's snowfall
buries the previous one. If temperatures are cold enough, the snow stays around long enough to be
squeezed into ice, clearly marking out the annual layers because summer's snow crystals are larger
than winter's, or because more dust blows in each year with the winter winds. The amount of snow
that fell in a given year gives clues as to how warm it was then.
By ^fitting together a variety of measures like these, researchers have come to remarkably similar
conclusions about temperatures over the last thousand years. The eleventh century was indeed
relatively warm, corresponding to the Medieval Warm Period. Temperatures were cooler in the
seventeenth century, corresponding to the Little Ice Age, and again in the early nineteenth century.
These warm and cool periods apparently were also fairly widespread.
However, it was only in the twentieth century that temperatures really began to rise noticeably. The
warming didn't happen regularly, but in two bursts Å\ which turns out to be important. The first one
occurred during the early years of the century and was marked enough that it made itself clearly felt.
The second burst of
ever since. And,
crucially, the temperatures we are
egan in the 1970s and has been gath<
experiencing now are hotter than they
the entire last
thousand years. Even the Medieval Warm Period was cooler than it is today.
Let's look at some numbers. On a global scale, from the 1910s to the 1940s, average temperatures
rose by about 0.3 ÅãC. After that there was a cooling of about 0.1 ÅãC, and since 1970 the world has
warmed by a further 0.6 ÅãC. These numbers might not sound like much, but they are very significant.
• ffi3tti2oi7^a*^AapÅ‚iaiER
-79
HB*(2/S3B&Jfc)
Although the temperature where you live can change by much more than this within the space of a
few hours or days, it is much more worrying when global annual averages show a clear upward trend.
Averaging in this way ^smooths out short-term differences and shows what's really happening. That's
why a small change in global average temperature can reflect a very big shift in climate. Speaking in
global averages, ^.only a few degrees separate us from the frozen world of the last ice age.
(l) & Åí b tÅ}
A. listening carefully to how sounds differ from season to season
B. distinguishing between important and unimportant data
C. recording temperatures at various locations around the world
(2) Ti&gKDji*i t li b'tifro
A. data collected from the seventeenth through the twentieth century
B. data collected up until the end of the seventeenth century
C. data collected at the end of the twentieth century
(3)
A. Grapes do not grow well in cold temperatures.
B. The medieval "warm period" was not really as warm as it seemed.
C. Grapes were the major crop in England during the warm period.
(4)
A. devised B. dissolved
(5)
A. trees B. records
(6) &•!Åí(Åí Ztlfr0
(7)
A.
B.
C.
devoted

researchers
Snow begins to fall again after the previous year's snow has melted.
New layers of snow are constantly being added on top of older ones.
Snowfall has increased yearly in the far north and south of the Earth.
i> 5Åív> & <d tÅ} ttifro
A. comparing results with those of other researchers
B. making use of different types of research techniques
C. determining various conditions that cause warming
(8) THg|KDrtsÅ·-f & Åí i tt JWM9 i:Å·>0
A. Warming of the Earth has continued at a constant pace since the 1970s.
B. Awareness of global warming has become more noticeable since the 1970s.
C. The speed at which temperatures are rising has been increasing since the 1970s.
(9)
A. defines more clearly what we mean by "short-term differences"
B. shows that short-term differences are actually important
C. makes short-term differences seem less significant
(10) boaftiK
A. Temperatures during the last ice age were slightly lower than today.
B. We are increasingly in danger of experiencing another global ice age.
C. Minor variations in temperature have little effect on global warming.
B. LTftkjlS&iofol^Åòv>0
(1) The first paragraph suggests that over the last ten thousand years
A. icy and tropical conditions lasted for long periods of time.
B. CO2 levels have been much higher than they are today.
C. the climate of the Earth has changed relatively little.
(2) The second paragraph, beginning "When you're trying," suggests that global warming is hard to
measure because
A. it is difficult to get precise measurements with our current technology.
B. temperatures tend to change often even during otherwise steady times.
C. many scientists are not as serious about their data-collection habits as the British.
(3) According to the third paragraph, beginning "However, the record," a major problem with the
Central England Temperature Record is that it
A. reveals key facts about how unusual recent temperatures are.
B. is too limited in its coverage of time and geography.
C. fails to take natural occurrences into account.
(4) The fourth paragraph, beginning "Every year," and the fifth paragraph, beginning "In the frozen,"
suggest that
A. data gathered from different phenomena of nature provide information about temperatures in
the past.
2017 ÅíHÅ}^AtÅíPp'MIEfl5 R
mR* (2^3H mm) (2M 4 a sit)
80
B. the thickness of the rings in tree trunks is the same as the thickness of ice layers.
C. snow and ice layers provide a more accurate measurement of temperature change than tree rings do.
(5) According to the sixth paragraph, beginning "By fitting together," and the seventh paragraph,
beginning "However, it was,"
A. many researchers believe that the Medieval Warm Period was actually cooler than previously
thought.
B. in the eleventh and seventeenth centuries temperature changes were similar in scale to those of
the twentieth century.
C. temperature changes in the twentieth century were more extreme than those experienced in
earlier centuries.
(6) A suitable title for this passage would be
A. "Discovering Evidence of Global Warming."
B. "Global Warming and Global Cooling."
C. "Climate Change Since the Twentieth Century."
(7) The tone of the passage might best be described as
A. narrative. B. enthusiastic.

C. analytic.

90 ifr
p.24

Taro is an exchange student at an American university. He is talking with John after class.
Taro: Hey, John. Can you help me with something?
John: Sure,
Taro: Yeste
at my apartment I received a notice saying not to hang my laundry out on the
balcony. I can't understand why!
John: Well, the owner might be worried that the buUding will look messy if people hang their clothes
outside. Do people hang them out like that in Japan?
Taro: Yes, of course. (2)  In fact, the weather programs on TV even tell people
which days will be good for drying.
John: That's interesting. I've never seen such a thing on television here.
Taro: (3)  If I'm not allowed to hang my laundry on the balcony when it's sunny,
how can I get it dry?
John: Around here, most people use a clothes dryer. There must be one in the basement of your
apartment.
Taro: Yes, but dryers are bad for the clothing. And they waste electricity.
John: (4)  But most Americans find dryers to be much easier and quicker than
natural drying.
Taro: I see, but I really don't like to share the dryers in the basement with other people. I'm afraid
that those dryers are dirty.
John: Well then, you may have to buy one of your own. If you check the advertisements on the
Internet, maybe you can find a cheap used one.
Taro: (5)  Thanks for the advice, John. I have to get to my next class now.
(1) A.
C.
(2) A.
C.
(3) A.
C.
(4) A.
C.
(5) A.
B.
C.
D.
is everything OK?
what's the problem?
It's quite dry.
It's rather unusual.
But I wish I had a clothes dryer.
I haven't seen such a thing either.
That may be true, Taro.
That's why I have one in my basement.
OK, I suppose I have no other choice.
B.
D.
B.
D.
B.
D.
B.
D.
are you feeling sick?
what happened yesterday?
It must be messy.
It's our custom.
But there is something I wonder about.
I didn't know you had a television!
I don't agree with you, Taro.
Actually, I find them to be rather economical.
If that's what you say, I'm sure it must be there.
Perhaps, but can you help me find a new one?
In that case, I'll have to check the newspaper advertisements.
B. TW^SSAÅ\Fii, 6)R#Åíif
"C-to fctffL, ^7^7 7WSD!)^(iA^Åòt-to AKi|ÅítftB~FÅíIEL<&<#x.Åí$^o *<7>_tf. &
<nm~(6H-i!$-riÅ}i 2> &co<z) !?,-&Åí#Åí vÅ‚, ÅíÅí?L. iitTiii & & <Åí>/4?&v^ (Di^ix^^y Vy y<DM
• EJttt 2017 A&MSiEIS


81
MS* (2S 4 HUM)
(1) A<D#cfc:<Åí&c (2) (3) c<vmz<2,i><v
(4) DO#UC<Åí&tf> (5) E <Dm~<Z>i>(D (6) F <r)&.iZ<&i><D
A. A growing body of research suggests that excessive social media use can have negative effects on
the mental health of people of all ages.
B. Not all researchers agree with this, however. Some argue that people who are lonely to begin
with, or shy, are more likely to spend long hours on Facebook. So loneliness is not the fault of
social media. In any case, widespread usage of social media is a twenty-first century phenomenon,
so we are still learning to understand and cope with it.
C. Adults may also become depressed when using Facebook but for a different reason. Findings by
the University of Michigan suggest that the more time adults spend using Facebook, the lonelier
they become.
D. A recent study of American teenagers found that 22 percent of them log onto social media sites
at least ten times a day. Many of them reported being subject to bullying or unwelcome sexual
comments online, causing what researchers described as "Facebook depression."
E. Adults' Facebook depression occurs, for example, when people sit alone looking at countless
photos of friends having fun or doing something interesting. They may negatively compare their
own lives to what they see on their screens.
F. Other research shows that the superficial nature of online friendships can also contribute to
feelings of loneliness. The greater the proportion of face-to-face interaction in people's lives, the
less lonely they feel.
9 A. ( 1 )~( 15 ) o-fojgOfft
A researcher at the University of California at Berkeley recently made a study of the nation's
walking habits and found that the average person in the United States walks less than 120 kilometers a
year Å\ about 2 kilometers a week, about 300 meters a day. I'm no stranger to being lazy myself, but
that's surprisingly little. I walk more kilometers just looking for the remote control for my TV.
Eighty-five percent of Americans, according to the Berkeley study, are essentially sedentary Å\ we
rarely get up from our seats and move around Å\ and 35 percent are totally sedentary. We have
become a nation of ( 1 ).
One of the things my wife and I wanted when we decided to move back to America from England
was to live in a manageably sized town ( 2 ) walking distance of a central business district. Hanover,
where we settled, is a typical small town in the Northeast United States, pleasant, calm, and compact.
It has a broad central square surrounded by the old and respected buildings of Dartmouth College, a
narrow Main Street, and green residential streets. It is, in short, an agreeable, easy place to go about
one's business on foot, and yet as far as I can tell almost no one does.
I ( 3 ) to the center of the town nearly every day when I am at home. I go to the post office or
library or bookstore, and sometimes, if I feel like it, I stop at Rosey Jekes Cafe for a cappuccino.
( 4 ) in the evenings my wife and I stroll up to the Nugget Theater for a movie or to a bar for a beer.
All this is a big part of my life and I wouldn't dream of doing it other than on foot. People have
gotten used to this unusual behavior now, but several times in the early days, acquaintances who were
passing by would slow down by the sidewalk and ask if I wanted a ride.
"But I'm going your way," they would ( 5 ) when I politely declined. "Really, it's no bother," I
would reply. "Well, if you're absolutely sure," they would say and depart reluctantly, even guiltily.
People have become so ( 6 ) using the car for everything that it would never occur to them to use
their legs and see what those lower limbs can do. It is worth mentioning that 93 percent of all trips
outside the property in the United States now involve the use of a car.
As with most old Northeastern towns designed for another age of transportation, Hanover ( 7 ) a
particularly friendly place for cars. Nearly any visit to town by automobile will be characterized by a
long and very annoying hunt for a parking space. To improve this, the local authorities are widening
roads to speed traffic flow and building new parking lots Å\ Dartmouth recently ( 8 ) an old hospital
building in order to insert more parking space into the heart of the campus Å\ failing to understand
that it is the absence of these features that makes the town desirable in the first place.
But it isn't really the authorities who are to blame. It is the people who wish to take two tons of
metal with them ( 9 ) they go. We have reached an age where college students expect to drive
between classes, where parents will get in a car and drive three blocks to pick up their children from a
friend's house, where the postman takes his van up and down every driveway on a street. We will
( 10 ) to great extents to save ourselves twenty feet of walking.
Sometimes it's almost ridiculous. The other day I was in the little nearby town of Etna waiting to
bring home one of my children from a piano lesson. A car stopped outside the local post office and a
HXtt 2017 ^H^AHfaaiEfS •
MR*(234HHJÅí)
82
man about my age ( 11 ) and dashed inside and left the engine running. He was inside for about three
or four minutes, then came out, got in the car, and drove exactly sixteen feet to the general store next
door, and rushed in again, engine still running.
And the thing is, this man looked really fit. I'm sure he jogs great distances and plays sports and
does all kinds of very ( 12 ) things, but I am just as sure that he drives to each of those undertakings.
It's ( 13 ). An acquaintance of ours was complaining how difficult it was to find a place to park
outside the local gym. She goes there several times a week to walk on a running machine. The gym
is, at most, a six-minute walk from her front door. I asked her why she didn't walk to the gym and do
six minutes less on the machine. She looked at me as if I were ( 14 ) simple-minded and said, "But I
have a program for the running machine. It records my distance and speed and calorie-burn rate, and I
can adjust it for degree of difficulty." Her logic does not make any sense to me.
According to a recent editorial in a newspaper, the United States spends less than 1 percent of its
$25 billion-a-year highway budget on facilities for pedestrians. Actually, I'm surprised it's ( 15 ). Go
to almost any suburb developed in the last thirty years and you will not find a sidewalk anywhere.
Often you won't find a single pedestrian crossing. The fact is, we not only don't walk anywhere
anymore in this country, we won't walk anywhere. And if that isn't sad, I don't know what is.
(1) A.
C.
(2) A.
(3) A.
(4) A.
(5) A.
(6) A.
C.
(7) A.
(8) A.
(9) A.
(10) A.
(11) A.
(12) A.
(13) A.
(14) A.
(15) A.
movers and shakers
walkers and drivers
inside
walk
Unexpectedly
complain
respectful of
accustomed to
is
tore down
however
drive
popped out
diligent
wonderful
socially
so few
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
without
often walked
Absolutely
require
isn't
opened up
wherever
move
picked up
difficult
exciting
awfully
so many
B.
D.
C.
C.
C.
C.
B.
D.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
sitters and riders
scholars and workers
within
am walking
Luckily
insist
worried about
rebellious toward
was
put down
whenever
travel
came back
helpful
crazy
politically
that hard
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
D.
around
used to walk
Occasionally
show
couldn't be
pulled over
whatever
go
walked around
healthful
doubtful
carefully
that much
(1) At the beginning of the passage, the author jokingly suggests that
A. he spends more time watching television than he does walking.
B. he is somewhat lazier than the average person in the United States.
C. he walks around in his house more than most Americans walk anywhere.
(2) The author and his wife decided to live in Hanover mainly because
A. it had a broad central square and green residential streets.
B. it was the location of Dartmouth College, which is highly respected.
C. it seemed easy to get around the town without having to use a car.
(3) When drivers in Hanover saw the author on the sidewalk,
A. they thought it was strange that someone would be walking.
B. they wanted to ask him why he enjoyed walking so much.
C. they were eager to observe his walking behavior more closely.
(4) The author seems to think that the parking problems in Hanover should be solved by
A. better planning by the transportation department.
B. individuals being willing to change their behavior.
C. making more parking space available on the campus.
(5)
The author believes that his acquaintance who goes to the gym
A.
B.
C.
should adjust the degree of difficulty on the running machine more often,
ought to spend more time running, rather than walking, on the machine,
would save time and avoid some frustrations if she left her car at home.
(6) From this passage we can guess that the author
A. experienced some culture shock upon returning to his home country.
B. believes that life in the United States is better than life in England.
C. would be happy if more government money were spent to build parking spaces.
(7) The tone of this passage can best be described as
A. academic. B. humorous. C. formal.
• HXtt2017^S*^AaBgSjER
-83
HR* (2ji 4 asm)
S>Å\ofoStl'iJv^
Social researchers have long been interested in philosophical questions about the nature of
happiness, and whether or not people truly understand what will make them happy. Recently, some of
them have expressed concerns that people are focusing too much on achieving a state of happiness for
themselves and their families, and that they are impatient to reach this goal. In fact, a growing number
of experts now believe that the way some members of modern society are approaching the pursuit of
pleasure actually makes them feel miserable.
In the Western world, there is a very long tradition of "self-help." People try to improve themselves
emotionally, intellectually, or financially by means of conscious thought and behavioral change. cSelf:
help theories became more prominent during the twentieth century as the average person gained more
time for leisure, including reading. It was in the 1980s, however, that the self-help movement really
boomed. This came in response to rising rates of depression in Western society, arising from a difficult
period of social, economic and technological change.
Despite
Australian
intentions that
movement, critics, such as
researcher Hugh Mackay, believe it has started to harm society. He feels that it has
"become an industry, " because it has been taken over by public speakers and writers who present
unrealistic views of life, and try to sell happiness as a commodity. According to Mackay, the dominant
idea that is being sold is that people should always be bright, happy, and optimistic, because that is
their natural condition. As a result, it is ^increasingly common for people to think that if they are not
happy, there must be something mentally wrong with them. In the opinion of Russ Harris, a doctor
and author, these days "we refuse to accept that we can't always get what we want." In his recent
book The Happiness Trap, Harris argues that currently popular ideas about happiness are confusing
and are likely to make people miserable. Some doctors believe that current ideas about happiness are
partly f:, to blame for rising rates of heavy drinking, drug use, and obesity. The more we fail to find
genuine contentment, the more we seek to fill the gap with unhealthy behaviors that make us feel
good for a short time. But as we try to get rid of our feelings of sadness, failure and disappointment,
our rates of depression and anxiety continue to rise.
Along with the spread of the "feel-good, think positive" attitude encouraged by the modern self-
help industry, experts also note that a related "self-esteem movement" has appeared. According to
this outlook, the most important thing that parents can do for their children is to give them self-
esteem, or confidence in themselves. Therefore, parents are being urged by the "happiness industry"
of life coaches to praise their children at every opportunity in order to make them feel clever and
special.
Some of the world's leading happiness specialists now fear that ^,the self-esteem movement will
leave future generations hopelessly unprepared to deal with life's disappointments. Researchers are
concerned that many parents are raising children who, rather than learning the value of hard work, are
acquiring the belief that if they want something desperately enough they can have it. Carol Dweck,
professor of psychology at Stanford University, is troubled by the fact that parents are unwilling to let
their children struggle. Her research, based on observations of how children react when trying to solve
difficult problems, suggests that providing a lot of person praise (such as "you're talented, you're
special") only makes children worried. The pressure to merit all the praise they have been given
causes them to get upset, or lie about their performance. However, when given process praise (such as
"you focused well, you tried hard, you used good strategies") children enjoy trying difficult problems,
where they can apply their effort and strategies and show a strong spirit. Professor Dweck ^urges
parents to talk to their children not just about their victories but their struggles. Like Harris, she
maintains that accepting disappointments and unpleasant emotions, rather than trying to block them
out, is the key to building personal strength.
Already, mental health professionals are seeing the first victims of the self-esteem movement
entering therapy. In 2011, American therapist Lori Gottlieb reported that many young adults Å\
largely from happy, loving, advantaged homes Å\ were feeling confused, anxious and empty due to
overprotective parenting that focused too much on happiness and protected them from difficulties.
After entering ^ the real world, even minor obstacles became disasters for these young people.
The fact that some young people are dealing with ^issues like this inspired Hugh Mackay to write
that we must look beyond the pursuit of success and happiness as life's main goals. According to
Mackay, what is most important is developing our relationships with other people and our
responsibility for other people's well-being. Doing so supports the growth of communities, which are
essential to sustain us through our lives. If we focus only on happiness, we're neglecting the richness
of ^the full range of emotions. In fact, without knowing sadness, we couldn't appreciate happiness.
TUSKD^jtftK* i> & co(Å} ifiifro
PIXtt 2017 c
NB:*(2Åí4BX)t)
84
(2)
A.
B.
C.
New types of self-help theories developed.
More people got familiar with self-help theories.
People's lives improved greatly thanks to self-help theories.
i b fÅ} iftifro
A. Self-help supporters were trying to improve people's lives.
B. Many people intended to develop their own methods of self-help.
C. The self-help movement inspired people to change their behavior.
(3)
A. more and more usual B. perfectly normal
(4)
A. critical of B. responsible for
(5) & <niÅ}
as popular as

a solution to
A. People will be increasingly disappointed with life.
B. Children will have trouble solving problems in adulthood.
C. Children will lose their sense of hope for the future.
(6) b mtztifro
A. Parents like letting their children decide things on their own.
B. Parents prevent children from trying easy things.
C. Parents help children too much.
(7)
A. forces B. restricts
(8)
A. the world of adults B. the world of therapists
(9) i k
A. difficulty in adapting to society
B. breaking free from overprotective parents
C. being denied success and happiness
(10) i, <DÅ_Å} k'tifro
A. the peak of emotion
B. the way emotion heats us up
C. every kind of emotion
B. LTft -eft-eftA~C^P>-o-f
(1) According to the first paragraph, many social researchers now believe that the pursuit of happiness is
A. vital for certain members of society.
B. emphasized too much as a life goal.
C. one of the most essential things in life.
(2) According to the second paragraph, starting "In the Western," the self-help movement's growth
was stimulated by
A. people's responses in the West.
B. an economic depression.
C. rapid progress and change.
(3) According to the third paragraph, starting "Despite the good," one of Mackay's complaints about
the self-help movement was that
A. people were too bright, happy and positive.
B. people began to see being happy as mentally wrong.
C. the movement became a business in itself.
(4) According to the fourth paragraph, starting "Along with the," and the fifth paragraph, starting
"Some of the, " another incorrect belief related to the self-help movement was that
A. one should always have confidence in oneself.
B. parents are the most important influence on children.
C. people must prepare themselves for life's disappointments.
(5) According to Dweck in the fifth paragraph, starting "Some of the," if a parent is talking to a child
who gets a high score on a test, the parent should say,
C. encourages

C. the world of unhappy people
A. "You are so smart!"
B. "You really worked hard!"
C. "You're good at taking tests!"
(6) In the last paragraph, Mackay advises us that, in dealing with life,
A. success and responsibility are the keys.
B. sadness is more important than happiness.
C. building relationships will help us the most.

2017
85
HS*(2Åí4BHÅ·) • HR*B*(ÅíRBMR • m

(7) The best title for this article is
A. "Why the Self-Help and Self-Esteem Movements Don't Help."
B. "Why Children Need to Face the Realities of Struggle in Life."
C. "How Mackay's Discovery Changed Our Outlook on Esteem."
^UliC^-OII) • mgUP^ 2 J? 8 BHit
905H') 10 53-t-i-fr)
p.25
1
2
(<jx-• &&)%*&


Huntley High School in Huntley, Chicago, Illinois, offers a blended
learning program. It allows
students to combine online learning with in-person teacher instruction.
Most days, 16-year-old Jason Zobott walks into Huntley High School in suburban Chicago around
7:30 a.m. like any high schooler might. (5)It's what he does the rest of the day that's not so typical.
Zobott is ,C1 enrolled in Huntley High's blended learning program, which merges Internet-based
instruction with a more traditional classroom setting. One-third of the school's 2,700 students are
enrolled. In 2015, the school is working toward enrolling the majority of its students.
"Having to work online makes ( 7 ) really accessible to do the work that I have to get done," said
Zobott, a top-ranked junior who balances a heavy load of extracurricular activities ( 8 ) schoolwork.
"I can learn on my own. I can work at the pace I want to work. And I learn the way I want to learn."
Huntley High School students and educators often refer to the program simply as "blended." It allows
teachers to write the curriculum, ( 9 ) about the focus. Unlike many traditional online learning
programs, students have the option of a flexible schedule during allotted blended learning days. Some
days they meet with teachers, and some days they work online, according to Anne Pasco, who heads the
school's educational technology efforts.
"In blended learning, we focus on the content. We don't focus on needing to cover X amount of
material," Pasco said. "Blended allows us to provide a stable environment that gives students the ability
to spread their wings a bit, while we have the safety net of pulling them back into class if they need it."
The "homegrown" program, which ,,nilaunched in 2011, gives students who struggle in certain content
areas more one-on-one time with teachers during the school day, Pasco said.
"Before blended, (11)that had to happen after school or before school or on Saturday or maybe not at
all, because we had too many other activities that encroach upon students' academic day," Pasco said.
"Now, this student can work one-on-one with that teacher during the school day."
Teachers can monitor students' progress and track lesson plans online to see how much time students
spend on a specific assignment. Teachers are allowed to restructure the class schedule based on students'
needs.
"There's actually much better accountability," said John Burkey, the superintendent for Huntley
High's school district, which includes about 9,500 students.
"Blended learning is not a panacea, and the success of the program isn't about spending a bunch of
money on technology. Rather, it's looking at what students actually need, and building a culture of
innovation to ( 12 ) those needs."
Burkey said there were plenty of questions about blended learning when it was first introduced to the
Chicago district in 2011. One concern: How was the district going to pay for it?
It turns out the blended learning program spends about $8,500 per student, less than the Illinois
average of $12,000 per student.
"We spend considerably less than the average school district. We don't have a lot of resources
compared to many districts," Burkey said.
"We did not put new money into this. What we did is change the old things we were doing and
changed them into new ways. It's really a change in how you think of high school. This is not a more
expensive option."
It has worked. In a study published in 2014 in eLearn magazine, 92% of students surveyed at Huntley
High said that they were satisfied with the blended learning experience, and Mno teachers reported
negative experiences with it. The school is also seeing higher standardized testing scores.
SXtt 2017 ASSISE!? •

-86-
"The growth of blended certainly has corresponded with an overall rise in ACT scores," district
spokesman Dan Armstrong said. Since blended learning was implemented, Huntley High's average
composite ACT score has gone up nearly a point, from 22.1 to 23.0.
For 16-year-old Zobott, the advantage is time management. Three of his courses are advanced
placement. He also plays varsity basketball and club soccer and works part time. ,iaThe blended
learning program helps him better prioritize his busy schedule.
"Having blended gives us time to work on them, and get stuff done efficiently so we have more time
during the week to do other things," he said.
"What's still left to be determined about blended learning is how well students do in college or jobs
after they graduate," Burkey said.
"I think we're still in the infancy of this," Burkey said. "It's still such a new thing, and we're all
excited about it. My own kids are still in elementary and middle school, so they have not done blended
learning yet, but they definitely will when they get to high school."
(Nick Valencia, "At this high school, the schedule is flexible.")
(?Å}) ACT : the American College Testing panacea Å° 75MM
5. T^g|S(5)cO It com • It a ~ d <D o hfrb 1 oftfi Åí v>0
a. It is the revenue from these advertisements which enables newspapers to be sold at a price which
represents only a fraction of the cost of production.
b. It's a nuisance, this delay.
c. It is not too much to say that he is a genius.
d. It had often been imagined that there was a large continent a little south of Australia, but Captain
Book found nothing but sea and ice.
a. rolled b. expelled c. registered d. immigrated
7. 7 ) KXtiZOlzmbrnMbkm,
a. a b. he c. it d. up
8. Åíj5r( 8 )
a. at b. with c. in d. out
9. zUfflf ( 9 )(a~dcD-9-t>^
a. with feedback giving students b. with gave students feedback
c. with students feedback gave d. with students giving feedback
a. refrained b. unlocked c. downloaded d. started
11. a~d(Do1ifrt> l-oMV>'%2^o
a. content b. one-on-one time with teachers
c. the home-grown program d. class
12. ÅíWÅ_ ( 12 ) a-dco^-^ib
a. meet b. refuse c. confuse d. negate
13. a ~ d<Di 1
a. more teachers reported negative experiences with it
b. no teachers reported positive experiences with it
c. there weren't any teachers who reported on program positively
d. there weren't any teachers who reported on the program negatively
a. complemented b. appointed c. put into practice d. put into words
15.
a. He thinks that it is not good to make his schedule busy at high school by the blended learning
program.
b. He thinks that the blended learning program helps him decide which subject of study or activity
should have priority over others.
c. He thinks that the blended learning program makes his schedule full of activities on campus.
d. He thinks that the blended learning program enables him to manage his busy schedule better.
e. He thinks that his busy schedule enables him to achieve his primary goal at high school.
f. He thinks that his busy schedule gives him more time to devote himself to studying about priorities.
16. a~ f (On 2oiauf&gvy
a. Blended learning enables students to manage their busy schedule.
b. Blended learning is not a remedy for all problems.
c. Blended learning will be made better if more money is spent on the program.
d. Blended learning will be made better if less money is spent on the program.
e. Blended learning needs new technology at any school that considers introducing this program.
2017 ÅíS*Å_AKFpMIDSÅ_
